
If you're currently learning to code and   building your first couple of apps, you   probably think that toy projects you've   built along the way aren't worth   anything. But what happens when you take   it all the way and actually try to turn   one into a profitable app? That's   exactly what I'll be doing in this   video.

 I'll walk you through my entire   journey step by step from brainstorming   a painkiller app idea to building a high   conversion landing page and an MVP in a   weekend. And finally to what most solo   founders skip, actually executing on the   marketing plan to get that first paying   customer. So take this as a realistic   example of how you can turn the stuff   you build in your coding courses into   something that can actually make you   some money.

 And of course, I'll be   sharing the exact earnings and metrics   of my app so you can see some real   results. The first step in building any   app is to commit to a good idea. So, I   started by looking at the types of apps   that coding platforms like Scriber teach   their students to build as learning   projects.

 And I came across this project   called Polyglot, which caught my   attention because it was super simple   and easy to understand. It's just a   basic translation tool that uses an AI   model to translate text from one [music]   language to another. But obviously,   that's way too simple of an app to   realistically sell to anyone and earn   any real money.

 But I was still   optimistic that a translation app of   some sort could be useful for someone   who deals with foreign languages   regularly. So next I brainstormed with   my best buddy Claude on how we can turn   this simple app into a painkiller   product that we can actually sell. And   after some back and forth I had a vague   idea of something that I could build.

 At   first I was considering building a   browser extension that lets you   highlight any foreign text on any   website and receive a rich translation   so you actually understand the text. But   then I realized there are a ton of   translation extensions out there and   they all offer something similar   already.

 So then I thought to myself,   what would I actually find useful and   pay for when it comes to translation and   foreign languages? And immediately I   thought about the times where I would   want to watch foreign YouTube videos,   but they didn't have any English   subtitles, so I would either skip it   entirely or just rely on YouTube's   translated captions and dubbing   features, which honestly has terrible UX   and is often inaccurate in its   translations.

 To validate this idea, I   did a quick Google search to see if   there were any complaints about   YouTube's translation features. And sure   enough, there were plenty of complaints   to go through. This was great for me   because suddenly, I had an app idea that   I was actually excited to build. It   scratched my own itch and I knew exactly   where to target my marketing once it was   built.

 And courtesy of Claude, I'm   naming the app Fluently, something   that's catchy, easy to remember, and   describes the product perfectly in my   opinion. Now, there's no correct way to   evaluate app ideas, as there are   definitely wacky apps out there that go   against all best practices and are just   printing money.

 But if you need a simple   framework to evaluate your own ideas,   try categorizing your app idea into one   of three categories: painkiller, vitamin   or candy, then ask yourself, are people   already looking for this type of app?   You can check this by measuring search   volume on Google Trends or reading   through Reddit thread comments or   browsing through discussions on niche   forums.

 Second, are people already   paying for this type of app? If yes,   then it means you have competitors, but   they've done the hard part for you,   which is convincing people to pay for   this type of product. You just need to   convince them to pay you instead by   offering a better UX, improved features,   or a fairer pricing model.

 And finally,   can you explain what your app does in   one sentence? Because painkiller apps   are usually very simple. They address   one problem and they do it well. After   asking yourself these questions, you   should have a clearer picture of whether   your app is a painkiller, vitamin, or a   candy product.

 And just to be clear, I'm   not saying you should only build   painkiller apps, but knowing the   difference helps you decide on the best   approach for your MVP and marketing   plan. Now, before we start building, let   me quickly run through my tech stack for   this project. It's nothing complex, just   the tools I'm most familiar with and can   move the fastest in, as the goal is to   spend no more than a weekend on building   the first version of my app.

 Obviously,   Claude Code is my primary coding agent   these days. I rely heavily on MCPs,   skills, and agent teams for my build   process, and I pretty much live inside   the terminal now when I'm building with   some occasional edits through cursor.   Ghosty is my go-to terminal for its   performance and reliability, and I pair   it with some handy TUI apps to make sure   I can stay locked in without app   switching for as long as possible.

 For   the rest of the stack, I'm using Nex.js   for the landing page and API endpoints.   and Vel to deploy and host everything in   one place. WXT as the framework for the   browser extension, CHTN for the UI   components, and Superbase for   authentication and the database. Now, I   know I just rattled off a bunch of tools   for AI agents.

 But honestly, having   access to all this stuff means nothing   if you don't have the fundamental coding   skills to back it up. And I think that's   what actually separates skilled   developers from this new wave of five   coders who rely entirely on AI without   really understanding the code is writing   for them.

 AI is definitely changing how   we write code, but the developers who   are genuinely ahead and productive are   the ones with strong programming   fundamentals, and they use AI to amplify   the output, not to replace the   understanding. So, if you're looking to   sharpen up your coding fundamentals for   your next project, I highly recommend   you check out Scribbler.

 They are known   for their interactive and project-based   learning approach where you can code   directly in the browser and you'll be   prompted by the teacher to pause and   solve challenges to test your   understanding. They're also going well   beyond only teaching front end as they   have courses for full stack, backend,   cyber security, and even AI engineering.

  So, you can learn how to work   effectively with modern LLMs to build   your next app. I can personally vouch   for them because I've used their   platform back when I was working as a   full-time software engineer looking to   upskill myself with the latest AI tools   and frameworks. I took their AI   engineering course to learn about the   OpenAI API and Langchain in the early   days.

 And their interactive lesson   format is genuinely one of the best   experiences I've ever had compared to   other learning platforms. So, if you're   looking to level up your coding skills,   please check out Scriber, first link in   the description, where you can get 20%   off your subscription. I'm ready to   start building.

 But before I write a   single line of code, I need to scope   down what the first version of my app   should look like. Otherwise, it's too   easy to get distracted adding features   that don't solve the core problem. I've   mentioned this many times before, but my   favorite approach to building the first   version of any app is to use the SLC   framework.

 Simple, lovable, and   complete. The idea is to ship the   smallest version of the app that gives   users real value from day one. So,   here's the vision I had for Fluently.   Keep it simple by just having a single   translate button embedded into YouTube's   video player. When clicked, it should   instantly start translating the video   into your native language.

 Make it   lovable by making sure my captions are   actually better and more accurate than   YouTube's own auto translate feature.   And make sure it's complete by having   translations work reliably,   authentication, and payments handled   seamlessly, and users can easily reach   out for support if they have any issues.   People often overcomplicate their   landing page.

 They either do too much   and end up with something that's   cluttered and confusing and doesn't   convert, or they show too little and   don't give the user a good enough reason   to sign up or purchase. To craft a high   conversion landing page, just optimize   for these three things and it will get   you 90% of the way there.   Copyrightiting, which is what you say,   design, which is how it looks, and   social proof, which is why they should   care.

 Your hero section is the first   thing people see when they land on your   page. Your headline needs to be so clear   that any stranger immediately   understands what your app does. The best   headlines make bold claims, invoke   emotions, or state direct benefits. Then   add a sub headline below for extra   context.

 Keep it one to two sentences   max describing what your app does, who   it's for, and what problem it solves.   And handle common objections in your FAQ   section. This is where people will look   if they are on the fence. Think of   things like moneyback policies, support   options, and anything else they'd want   to know before buying.

 When it comes to   design, I follow this landing page   structure, which has proven to work well   for SAS products. Now, you don't need to   add every section onto your website.   Just pick what's relevant to your app   and where you're at. For example, if I'm   just launching, I keep it super simple.   A hero section with a demo, a section   describing how it works, displaying the   pricing options, and listing out the   FAQs.

 As for the pricing model, I'm   keeping it super simple. A free tier to   let users try it out, a $9.99 per month   option for casual users, and a $24.99   per month option for power users who   need higher limits. So, let's move on to   building the browser extension. I wanted   the extension to work as seamlessly as   possible within YouTube.

 The main reason   being, I personally hate context   switching between apps. And second, most   competitors require the users to use   their separate web app for translations.   So, if I can build something that just   works natively on YouTube, it would be a   great way to differentiate myself. To   pull this off, I just needed to inject a   content script into YouTube's video   player.

 In my case, it renders a simple   translate button on the top right of the   video player. And when you click it, it   kicks off the translation logic. As for   the rest of the UI, I'm using SHN   components. And here's a quick tip. You   can create presets on their website and   import it into any project such as web   apps and browser extensions.

 This is   handy because it keeps all your   components looking consistent and saves   you from making design decisions for   every new component you add. As for   implementing the translation logic, this   was the most time-conuming part of the   build because YouTube enforces strict   rate limits on the API and actively   blocks third party bots and scrapers.

  So, I had to get creative and build my   own custom pipeline, which essentially   extracts the raw audio from the YouTube   video, then passes it to dedicated AI   models to transcribe and translate   everything into a subtitles format. For   obvious reasons, I won't go too deep   into the implementation details, as I   want to keep that locked down for now.

  But in the end, I got something that   works reliably and produces genuinely   good translations. Now that my extension   was built and ready, it was time to   create the marketing assets for my   launch. The landing page was already   done, so I just needed to create some   visual assets for the Chrome Web Store   listing and a product demo to showcase   the extension in action.

 After all that   was done, I submitted my extension to   the Chrome Web Store, and I got   extremely lucky as it was approved in   less than 24 hours. So, that meant I   could start marketing it immediately.   Since my app is in the B2C category and   is a low ticket product, my best bet is   to cast a net far and wide to get as   many early users as possible.

 I posted   everywhere I could think of. X, Product   Hunt, and even my LinkedIn to get that   initial traction. My X launch was okay.   Nothing crazy, but unfortunately didn't   go viral. My launch on Product Hunt was   decent. Got 85 up votes, got ranked   number 13 for the day, which was nice.   And LinkedIn was a flop, but I kind of   expected it since I'm not a huge   LinkedIn user in the first place.

 But   the platform that made the most sense to   me to market on was Reddit. There were   many large communities that fit my ideal   customer persona, and it was where most   of the frustration and complaints came   from during my initial research. I even   created a custom skill to automate the   marketing process on Reddit.

 It gives   the agent access to my Chrome browser,   autonomously searches for relevant   threads to plug my product into, and   returns a list of links with pre-written   responses for me to use. Quick plug.   Members of my private community, Startup   Club, have access to this skill for free   along with many other guides on AI and   indie hacking being released every   month.

 It's a community to help solo   founders build and ship their apps   faster. So, if you're interested, check   out the link to Startup Club in the   description. But since Reddit is quite   strict on self-promotion and   advertising, it was really hard to get   my product out there without getting   banned or removed. So, I decided to try   something different for this launch, and   that's diving into the world of paid   ads.

 I'll be honest, I had no idea what   I was doing going into this, and I kind   of just winged it for my first campaign,   but the process was actually quite   simple to get started. You fill in your   basic details, select the communities   and interest groups you want to target,   and set your timeline and budget. And of   course, I use Claude to help me tweak   and optimize my campaign before running   it, so I'm not just burning through   money and hoping for the best.

 So,   here's where things currently sit. I've   spent over $100 in ads, which got me   over 150,000 impressions and over 400   clicks. From those 400 clicks, I got 26   registered users. And from those 26   users, five converted into paying   customers on the premium plans. And that   currently puts me at around $100 in   monthly recurring revenue, which is just   about breaking even with the ad spend.

  But for a first ever ad campaign with   zero experience, I'm actually not too   disappointed with these results. So, you   might be wondering if you should just   run paid ads for an app you've just   launched. And honestly, I wouldn't do   it. I did it to get the experience and   learn the process of running paid ads,   but I wouldn't recommend it for most   apps, especially if you're just starting   out and don't have much budget to spend   in the first place.

 Instead, my advice   would be to focus on organic social   media marketing and start creating   content that directly targets your ideal   customers niche. In my case, it will be   creating reals, shorts, or Tik Toks that   highlight the pain of not being able to   understand foreign content on YouTube   and targeting it to people who would   benefit the most.

 for example, anime   fans, Kdrama watchers, or anyone who   just consumes a lot of foreign content   online. Not only is this the cheaper   option, but it forces you to learn   important skills like writing compelling   hooks, storytelling, and content   creation. And it's what I'll be doing   going forward with Fluently. Because as   much as we'd love to think that a good   product will just sell itself.

 The   reality is that most of the time, we   have to learn the art of persuasion and   the tactics of getting attention on the   internet so people are actually aware of   what we're building. Remember at the   start of the video how I said most   people think the toy projects they build   in coding courses aren't worth anything?   Well, all it took was one simple   tutorial app to get started as   inspiration, then brainstorming it into   a painkiller product and a couple days   work to go from zero to our first paying   customer. I know the results were   nothing too impressive, but I'm still   happy to have learned a lot in this   process. From overcoming technical   challenges to running my first ad   campaign. So, if you've been stuck in   tutorial mode these days, take one of   those projects you've already built and   ask yourself, what real problem could   this solve? And you might be closer to   your first paying customer than you   think. And if you want to improve your   coding fundamentals for your next   project, go check out Scriber. My   personal recommendation for anyone   wanting to learn how to
