
Transitioning from a mid-level developer   to a senior engineer requires shifting   your focus from simply writing code to   mastering high-level architectural   design. This video breaks down the   essential road map for building scalable   productionready systems from the ground   up covering everything from API   protocols to database selection.

 You   will learn the core differences between   REST, GraphQL, and gRPC as well as the   strategies for scaling through load   balancing and robust security practices.   Hayek developed this course.   >> Most developers cannot design systems or   features from scratch. They can add to   someone else's architecture with tasks   with clear requirements and already on   mature systems.

 But if you ask them to   design something from the ground up,   most of them usually will freeze. And   actually that is the exact skill that   separates mid-level developers from   seniors because seniors are also able to   make decisions, design tradeoffs, design   the architecture from scratch and make   decisions with rough requirements.

 So   companies are not paying six figures for   people who can just code or follow   instructions but they are paying for   architectural decisions for making the   system performant for optimizing the   data storage and making the decisions   that also affect the customers and the   software that they are building.

 So in   this video I'm going to teach you the   exact concepts that I mastered to be   able to design such systems from scratch   and also get to senior roles. This is   how I passed the system design   interviews without any problems. And   these are the skills that I learned to   get to senior level within the second   year of my career.

 So I'm not teaching   you some theory from books or from   newsletters. This is what actually works   in a real jobs and in real interviews.   So let's jump into my computer to see   what we are going to cover in this   course. First of all, we will start from   the foundations, the core concepts that   you need to understand before anything   else in system design.

 Then we'll get to   API design, which is a big part of   designing systems like how to actually   design APIs that scale and also make   sense for other developers who will be   using it. Then we'll get into databases,   how to choose the right database for   different scenarios and design your data   layer properly.

 Next, we'll get into   caching. How to use caching? How to use   CDNs, load balancing to make your   systems fast and reliable. Then we'll   get into big data processing because   that's a big topic in itself. How to   handle large scale data the right way.   Then we'll get to designing for   productions like how to build systems   that actually work in the real world,   not just on your laptop or on a single   machine.

 And lastly, you can see how I'm   designing the systems for interviews and   handling this step so that you can nail   these interviews and get the offers that   you need for getting to senior roles.   Designing a system to support millions   of users is challenging, but every   complex system starts with something   simple.

 That's why in this lesson, we'll   build a basic setup that supports just   one single user and then we'll gradually   expand it as we go. because starting   small allows us to understand each core   component before adding more complexity.   So let's start with the first step and   build a single server setup. Imagine   that we're setting up a system for a   small user base.

 This means that   everything runs on one single server,   the web application, the database, the   cache, and also the other components.   And this setup allows us to visualize   the core workings without added   complexity. Now let's break down how   this single server setup handles the   user requests. We have some users who   are trying to access our website or our   API on the server.

 They can be either   using the web browser or a mobile app to   access our server. And on the other   hand, we have our server which has the   necessary files to serve to the web   browsers and also the necessary API   endpoints to serve to the mobile app and   it is hosted on this example IP address.   Initially our users don't have this IP   address.

 They have the domain which they   are trying to access. Let's say it's   app.demo.com.   So if they just type this domain name   and hit enter, their web browser for   example will contact the DNS which   stands for domain name system. This is a   provider which maps the domains to the   IP addresses. And in our case, let's say   our domain name is mapped to the IP   address which is the server's IP address   that we have.

 So now this DNS provider   will send the IP address back to the web   browser or to the mobile app to our   clients. And this IP address is our   server's IP address. So now they have   the location where they are trying to   send requests. So with this IP address   in hand, the user's device sends an HTTP   request to our server asking for   specific data.

 And then our server   processes this request and sends back   the requested data. This might be an   HTML page for a browser or a JSON   response for the app depending on the   request type. In this setup, traffic   usually originates from two main   sources. The first one is the web   applications and the second one is the   mobile applications that are trying to   access our server.

 For our web users,   the server handles the business logic,   data storage and also presentation using   HTML, CSS and JavaScript. And for mobile   users, communication typically happens   over HTTP. These mobile apps request   data from the server using API calls.   And JSON is often used for responses   because it's lightweight and easy for   mobile devices to interpret.

 Here is an   example API request that we can receive   for our server. It can be a get request   to our domain/ product/ the ID of that   product. And for this endpoint, we need   to retrieve the details of a product.   And here is an example response that we   might send back to the client. This is a   JSON response which contains the product   ID.

 It contains the name of this   product, some description, the price of   the product and some other metadata that   is useful for the client. And then this   will be used by the mobile app or by the   web browser to display this product on   the screen. And as we continue, our goal   will be to identify areas where a single   server might not be enough for the user   demand.

 For now, this setup is ideal for   small user bases, but it may struggle   under heavy traffic. So, next we'll   explore ways to scale each part of the   system to support more users   effectively. Some key takeaways that we   can have from this is that we need to   start small. We need to begin with a   straightforward single server setup to   understand the essential components of   system architecture.

 Now we also   understand how these requests flow   through your system which is fundamental   for building more scalable systems and   we also recognize the unique demands for   web and mobile applications and how they   interact with your server. And in the   next lessons we'll start looking at   strategies for optimizing and scaling   this setup.

 As our user base grows a   single server isn't enough to handle the   increased demand. And to accommodate   more users, we can separate our web tier   which is handling the web and mobile   traffic and the data tier which is   managing the database. This setup   enables us to scale each server based on   its specific load.

 But when it comes to   choosing the right database, how do we   know which specific database is the best   for our specific application? When it   comes to database selection, there are   two main options. The first option is   relational databases or RDBMS which are   structured in tables and rows. Some   popular examples are PostgresSQL, MySQL,   Oracle database or SQL light.

 On the   other hand, we have non relational or   NoSQL databases. These are suited for   applications that require flexibility   and fast access to large volumes of   unstructured data. Some examples are   Cassandra, MongoDB, Radius or Neo 4G.   Let's start by exploring the relational   databases. These databases use   structured query language or SQL for   finding and manipulating data.

 The data   here is structured in tables which are   the fundamental building blocks of SQL   databases. And these are similar to   spreadsheets. Each table consists of   columns which can be thought as the   fields or attributes of the table. And   it also consists of rows which are   single records within this table. For   example, if you imagine a customers   table, within this table, we can have   columns like ID, name, age and email.

  And for each rows, we can have specific   customers like the ID of 1 2 3 and the   name will be John and the age will be 30   and so on. But what are the advantages   of using an SQL database? First of all,   they support complex join operations   across multiple tables. For example, if   you imagine we have a customers table   and also a products table and now we   want to create a separate table that   will connect the customers and the   products that they have ordered.

 With   SQL you can join these two tables   together into an orders table and this   will hold the information about the   customer ids who have this order and   also the product ids which this customer   has ordered. And this process of   combining two or more tables into one   table are called join operations in SQL.   And the other big advantage is they   provide robust data consistency and   integrity especially for transactions.

  Transactions in SQL are a sequence of   one or more SQL operations that are   performed as a single atomic unit and   each transaction in SQL follows the ACT   acronym. You can think of a transaction   example like a bank transfer. So first   of all all of the transactions are   atomic which means that the entire   transaction is treated as a single unit   which either completely succeeds or   completely fails.

 Each transaction is   also consistent which means that it   transforms the database from one valid   state to another valid state and they   also come with isolation which means   that modifications made by concurrent   transactions are isolated from one   another and they don't interfere with   each other. And lastly, they come with   durability, which means even if the   system fails or the database server   fails, the data will still remain there.

  And now let's have a look at non-   relational databases. Non- relational   databases can be in different forms. For   example, we have document stores like   MongoDB or you can use wide column   stores like Cassandra, key value stores   like Radius and graph stores like Neo4G.   Let's have a look at each of these types   separately and let's start with the   document stores.

 MongoDB is the most   popular example of a document store and   the data here is stored in JSON like   documents which allows us to have   complex data structures within a single   record. Next, we have wide column stores   where data is stored in tables, rows and   dynamic columns. Some examples here are   Cassandra or Cosmos DB.

 The main   advantage of these databases is they can   handle massive scales and are very good   for many right operations. The other   option is graph databases which focus on   storing the entities and their   relationships as graphs. An example of a   graph database is Neo 4G. For example,   in Amazon, they use the Neptune graph   database which helps them to make you   product recommendations based on your   previous orders.

 And the other popular   type is key value stores. Here data is   stored in key value pairs. The biggest   advantage of key value stores is their   simplicity and speed. Since they are   primarily stored in RAM, reading and   writing to these databases is extremely   fast compared to other databases. Some   examples of key value stores are   memcache or radius.

 So that's the main   four types of NoSQL databases. Now let's   have a look at the advantages of these   NoSQL databases. If you have a look at   the same example that we had for the SQL   databases where we have customers and   products and we want to join them in   orders. For example, in MongoDB, you   could have this as a single document.

 So   you could store all of the user data,   also the orders and products in a single   document. And because of this structure,   the NoSQL databases can handle highly   dynamic and large data sets without the   structure imposed by relational   databases. And also they are optimized   for low latency and scalability.

 So when   should you use relational versus   non-reational databases? Here is a quick   comparison of both. If your application   data is well structured with clear   relationships, then you should use SQL   databases. For example, if you have an   e-commerce application tracking   customers and orders, that's a good use   case of using an SQL database.

 Next, if   you need strong consistency and   transactional integrity, for example, if   you have a financial application or   banking system, then you should use the   SQL databases. However, if your app   demands super low latency for quick   responses, then you should go with non-   relational databases or if the data is   unstructured or semistructured like JSON   objects and the relationships aren't   that crucial, then you should also go   with NoSQL databases.

 And lastly, if   your application requires flexible and   scalable storage for massive data   volumes, for example, a recommendation   engine storing user activity data and   key value format, then you should also   go with NoSQL databases. Let's explore   the two primary approaches to scaling,   which are vertical and horizontal ways   of scaling.

 And we'll also see why   horizontal scaling is generally more   suitable for hightra applications. First   we have the vertical scaling or   sometimes it's also called scale up.   This just means that we are adding more   resources to our existing server meaning   RAM, CPU or any other resources that   might help us to handle more traffic.

  And this approach is simple and works   well for applications that have low or   moderate traffic. However, it comes with   its limitations which are firstly   resource limits. There is a hard cap on   how much you can add to a single server   and eventually you will reach a limit on   how much you can upgrade your new   server.

 And the second reason is lack of   redundancy. Meaning if this server goes   down, you don't have any other servers   to serve your users, which means that   your whole application goes down with   your single server. On the other hand,   we have horizontal scaling which is also   sometimes called scale out. In case of   horizontal scaling, we are just adding   more servers to share the load.

 So   instead of having the single server, we   might replicate and have three of that   same server. And now we can share that   load between these servers instead of   handling all of them in a single server.   Generally this is more suitable for   large scale applications as it comes   with higher fault tolerance.

 And higher   fault tolerance means if one of our   servers goes down, we still have two   servers available. So these two servers   can continue serving our users while the   second server recovers from the failure.   And it also comes with better   scalability because you can just add   more servers as needed. Instead of   having three, you might introduce a   fourth one which will handle the new   incoming traffic.

 But how do we   implement the horizontal scaling? In   case of a single server, we know that   all of our client requests went to the   single server whether it's from mobile   app or from the desktop. But what if now   we have three servers to handle all the   load? How do we distribute the client   requests? Let's say our mobile app makes   a request.

 How do we know where this   request should go? Whether it should go   to the server one or server two or to   server three. And seems like we need to   have something in the middle which will   direct the traffic to the appropriate   servers. And that part in the middle is   called a load balancer. We use load   balancers to distribute the traffic   across multiple servers.

 For example,   here we have three servers. Server one,   two, and three. Whenever we have a new   request from the clients, the load   balancer decides where we have the least   load. And then it redirects the traffic   to that server. And it also controls the   fault tolerance, meaning if one of our   server goes down, like the server free,   it will stop sending traffic to the   first server since it's not available   anymore.

 And it will send all of the   traffic to server two and one until the   server three is available again. And it   also can make our app more scalable   because we can introduce a new fourth   server and any other servers that we   want. And this load balancer will ensure   that all of the traffic is distributed   evenly.

 So that's the two main   approaches of scaling which are vertical   and horizontal ways of scaling. In case   of vertical scaling, we are just adding   more resources to our same server. But   in case of horizontal scaling, we are   adding more users to our server base.   And then we use a load balancer which   distributes the traffic across multiple   servers.

 But right now, this load   balancer is kind of a black box for us   because we don't understand how does it   work, how does it take the requests and   how does it distribute the traffic. So   let's explore that in the next lesson   and let's see how this exactly works and   what are the strategies that we use in   load balancing.

 Load balancers   distribute the incoming traffic across   multiple servers while also ensuring   that no single server bears too much   load. But how does it actually happen   and how does the logic work of   distributing the incoming traffic? To   understand load balancers better, let's   explore seven strategies and algorithms   that are commonly used in load   balancing.

 Let's start with round robin,   which is one of the most popular   algorithms. That's mainly because it's   the simplest form of load balancing   where each servers in the pool gets a   request in sequential rotating order   which basically means that the first   request that it receives it directs it   to the first server and the next request   will go to the second server and the   third one will go to the third server.

  And once the last server is reached, in   this case it's the server free, it   redirects it back to the first server   and then again to the second server and   so on. This works well for servers with   similar specifications. Meaning if all   of our free servers have the same   capability, then round robin will be a   good choice here.

 Next option is the   least connections algorithm. It directs   traffic to the server with the fewest   active connections. For example, if we   have 10 active connections on the server   one, we have nine active connections on   the server two and we have 30 active   connections on the server three. If it   receives a new request from the client,   it will direct it to the server two   because it has the least active   connections at the moment.

 So now it   will have one more connection. And this   is particularly useful for applications   where you have sessions of variable   lengths. Meaning that one of your   sessions might last 10 minutes, the   other one might last 1 minute and so on.   And in this case, the load balancer will   take that into account and it will send   the traffic to the least connection   server.

 The third option is least   response time. This algorithm is more   focused on responsiveness of the   servers. Let's say your first server is   highly responsive. The second one is low   responsiveness and the third one is   medium responsiveness. In that case, the   load balancer chooses the lowest   response time and with the fewest active   connections.

 Meaning first it will try   to send as many connections to the high   responsive server as possible. But it   also takes into account the active   connections. Let's say this server   reaches 30 active connections. Then it   will switch to the third server because   this is the medium responsiveness   server. and it will send some traffic,   let's say 20 other requests to the   medium responsiveness server and after   that it will switch to the second server   and it might send another 10 requests to   this first server until it redirects   them back to the first server. This is   effective when the goal is to provide   the fastest response time to requests   and you also have different servers with   different capabilities.   The fourth option is the IP hash   algorithm, which determines which server   receives the request based on the hash   of the client's IP address. This is   useful when you want your clients to   consistently connect to the same server.   Let's say client one makes a request to

  your load balancer. The load balancer   will use the client's IP address and   based on this, it will hash it and send   it to appropriate server. Let's say   server 2. and all of the future requests   of the client one will go to the load   balancer and it will use the same IP   hashing algorithm and based on this IP   address it will again redirect the user   one requests to the server too.

 This is   useful if it's important for a client to   consistently connect to the same   application. If every of your server has   some information about the clients that   are connected to it in that case the IP   hashing is a good choice. Then there are   also weighted algorithms. These are   variants of the above methods that can   be also weighted.

 For example, you can   have a weighted roundroin or weighted   list connections. In this case, servers   are assigned two weights typically based   on their capacity and performance   metrics. For example, if the first   server has 16 gigs of RAM, the second   one has 32 and the third one has 64.   Based on the server RAM and other   metrics, they are assigned two weights   and the load balancer takes that into   account when redirecting the traffic.

  First, it will try to send as many   connections to the first server as   possible because it's more weighted,   meaning it has more performance and then   it will try to send the other traffic to   server two and then the last and small   portion will go to server one. There are   also geographical algorithms which are   location-based algorithms that direct   requests to the server geographically   closest to the user.

 Let's say this   application is for US users. So mostly   users are connecting to this application   from US. But we also have some part of   the users who are connecting from   Europe. And in our pool of servers, we   can have one server that is located in   US East, another server that is located   in US West.

 And the last server can be   located somewhere in Europe for the   small base of users who are located in   Europe. So if a user comes from Europe   and makes a request to this load   balancer, it will redirect this user to   the server in Europe. Or if a user comes   from your US and makes a request to this   load balancer, it will check the   location of this US user based on its IP   address and then it will redirect either   to the US east or US west.

 This type of   load balancing is useful for global   services where latency reduction is   important. And the last most popular   type is consistent hashing. In this   case, we use a hash function to   distribute data across various nodes. We   have a hash function inside of a load   balancer and we usually imagine a hash   space along with this that forms a hash   rink like a circle.

 This hash function   forms a circle where we have the servers   for example the server one 2 and three   which are located in front of this load   balancer. So whenever a new request   comes from a user this hash function   takes the IP address of that user and   then based on that it locates this user   on this hash ring.

 Let's say it locates   it somewhere here and then depending to   which server this point is closest to   for example in this case this is closer   to server 2 it redirects the traffic to   that server. This is a bit more   complicated way of load balancing but it   also ensures that the same client   consistently connects to the same server   like in case of IP hashing.

 We also   talked about that whenever a server goes   down, this load balancer ensures that   traffic is not redirected to that   server. But how does it know in the   first place that this server is not   available? For that, most load balancers   come with health check features which   means that they are consistently   monitoring the servers by sending a   health check requests to all of these   servers and they have the information   about which servers are online.

 Let's   say the first three servers are   available and which ones are offline   which means the fourth server which is   offline. So whenever it detects a   failure in the health check, it knows   that this fourth server is not available   anymore. And based on that information,   if the next request comes from the   client, it won't redirect them to the   fourth server until the health check   again succeeds and it knows that the   fourth server is back online.

 And now   let's see some load balancer examples.   And what are these actually? How do we   implement them? First, we have software   load balancers. For example, NX is   probably the most common type of the   software load balancer. It has other   features and it's also used as a web   server, but it also offers the   functionality of a load balancer.

  Typically, you install this NX on your   server and then configure the servers   that should be load balanced and also   the algorithm. And as you can see, it   also comes with health checks which I   mentioned. So you can set up health   checks among your servers and then this   will consistently monitor your servers   and whenever one of your server goes   down, it won't redirect traffic to that   server.

 Another example of a software   load balancer is AJ Proxy which is an   open-source software that again you can   install on your server and configure as   you want. But apart from software load   balancers, we also have hardware load   balancers. For example, we have the F5   load balancer, which is a widely used   hardware load balancer known for its   high performance and feature set.

 Next,   we have Sitrix, which also comes with   load balancing functionality. And again,   this is a hardware type of load   balancer. But if you don't want to   configure all of that yourself on your   server or as a hardware, then the easier   solutions are cloud-based load   balancers. For example, AWS comes with   elastic load balancing.

 And if you have   your servers also set up in AWS, then   it's pretty easy to configure this with   your servers. And you can also see it in   the benefits that it automatically comes   with security automatic scaling, meaning   that it will automatically add new   servers to the pool if the demand   increases of your application.

 And it   also comes with monitoring, which is the   same as health checks. So you don't have   to set it up yourself. And other   examples similar to AWS are Azure's load   balancer and Google cloud's load   balancing. Now let's talk about the   concept which is called a single point   of failure in system design.

 This is one   part of your whole system that whenever   it fails, it will bring the entire   system down with it. So to put it   simply, it is any component that could   cause the whole system to fail whenever   it stops working. For example, if you   imagine this setup when the clients   connect to our load balancer and then   load balancer distributes them to the   APIs and then we have a single database   which is used for all API servers.

  Database here is one example of a single   point of failure. Whenever this database   goes down, all of these APIs won't be   able to connect to the database and   because of that all of these also won't   function properly and our clients won't   be able to receive any response from the   servers.

 So having single points of   failures in your system is problematic   because they can create vulnerabilities.   The first obvious downside is the   reliability because a single failure   like the failure of this database can   take the entire system down which could   mean business losses because users are   not able to access our platform.

 Maybe   they are also not able to access the   checkout page or any other parts of the   system which can bring losses in the   business. It is also an issue for   scalability because systems that have   single point of failures like this can   often struggle to scale as each   component will add a risk of failing   this single part.

 And the last part it   also brings a security issue because if   you have a single point of failure in   your system like the load balancer   attackers can compromise this point by   sending huge traffic to it and if this   fails the whole system will go down. We   will talk about how to avoid the   database single points of failure in the   databases section.

 But in this section,   we can have a look at how to avoid the   load balancers to become a single point   of failure. Because right now, we have   only one load balancer setup. And if   this load balancer goes down, then all   of our users won't be able to access   this point and they will also not be   able to access to our APIs.

 The first   strategy is adding redundancy to our   system. This means that we can use more   than one load balancer and for example   if the second load balancer goes down   users won't be able to connect to this   load balancer but in that case we can   redirect all of the traffic to the first   one and then this first load balancer   will balance the load between those   servers and we will monitor the health   of this second load balancer and   whenever it's back online and it's again   available we will also redirect 50% of   the traffic to the second load load   balancer. Another strategy is to use   health checks and monitoring for load   balancers themselves. As we saw, load   balancer can do health checks for the   servers and check whenever our servers   are online or offline. We can do the   same strategy for load balancers and we   can check their health continuously and   whenever one of our load balancer goes

  down, we will know that we shouldn't   redirect any traffic to this load   balancer until it is back online. And   the third common type is self-healing   systems which means that we again   monitor the health of our load balancer.   And if at any point we detect that it   goes down, we will replace this with a   new load balancer which is basically an   instance of this same load balancer.

 And   this way we won't cause any   interruptions and our clients will be   able to connect to this new load   balancer. If you're finding this useful   so far, I have a lot more system design   content on my YouTube channel, including   deep dives into specific components and   also case studies designing systems from   scratch.

 Just search for Hikimon on   YouTube or check out the link in the   description. Welcome to this section   where you will learn the fundamental   principles of API design which will   enable you to create efficient, scalable   and also maintainable interfaces between   software systems. Here is what we're   going to cover in this lesson.

 We'll   start from what APIs are and what is   their role in system architecture. Then   we'll cover the three most commonly used   API styles which are REST, GraphQL and   gRPC. We'll discuss the four essential   design principles that make great APIs   and also how application protocols   influence the API design decisions.

  We'll also cover the API design process.   So starting from the design phase to   development phase to deployment. So   we'll see how that process looks like.   So let's start by understanding what is   an API. API stands for application   programming interface which defines how   software components should interact with   each other.

 Let's say on one side you   have the client which is either the   mobile phone or the browser of this user   and on the other side you have the   server which will be responding to the   requests. So API here is just a contract   that defines these terms which are what   requests can be made. So it provides us   with an interface on how to make these   requests meaning what endpoints do we   have what methods can we use and so on.

  Also what responses can we expect from   this server for a specific endpoint? So   first of all it is an abstraction   mechanism because it hides the   implementation details while exposing   the functionality. For example, we can   make a request to save a user data in   this server. But we don't care at all   about how the logic applies behind the   scenes inside of this server.

 So we only   care about the interface that is   provided through this API and we only   use that endpoint and we store the user   without even knowing about the   implementation details and it also sets   the service boundaries because it   defines clear interfaces between systems   and components. So this allows us to   have multiple servers.

 We can have one   server that is responsible for managing   the users. We can have another one that   is responsible for some other records.   let's say for managing the posts and so   on. So this allows different systems to   communicate regardless of their   underlying implementation like client   browsers with servers or servers with   another servers and so on.

 Now let's   focus on the most important API styles   you will encounter during the design   phase. These are RESTful, GraphQL and   gRPC. The most common one out of these   is REST which stands for   representational state transfer. These   type of APIs use resource-based approach   by using the HTTP methods as a protocol.   One of the advantages of REST APIs is   that they are stateless, meaning that   each request contains all of the   information needed to process it and we   don't need any prior requests to be able   to process the current request. And it   uses the standard methods on HTTP   protocol which are get for fetching   data, post for storing data, put or   patch for updating data and delete for   deleting data. So based on its   characteristics, the rest is most   commonly used in web and mobile   applications. Next, we have GraphQL,   which is the second most common API

  style after the REST APIs. GraphQL is a   query language that allows clients to   request exactly what they need. This   means that it comes with a single   endpoint for all of the operations and   we can choose what we are expecting to   receive from this API by providing the   payload in the request and the   operations here are called query   whenever we are retrieving data or   mutation whenever we are updating data.

  So this is the equivalent in put or   patch or post in the restful APIs and   there is also a subscription in   operations which is for realtime   communication. The advantage of graphql   APIs is that it allows us to have   minimal round trips. Let's say we need   some data that in restful APIs we will   need to make three requests to get all   of this data.

 In GraphQL case, we can   make a single request and get all of   these data avoiding the unnecessary two   requests that we will otherwise have to   make in restful. And because of that,   this is the recommended option for   complex UIs. So wherever you have some   complex UIs where on one page you might   need different data, on another page you   might need some other complex nested   data.

 In these cases, GraphQL is the   better choice over restful APIs. And the   last option is gRPC. I would say this is   the least common one out of these three.   GRPC is a high performance RPC framework   which is using protocol buffers for   communication.   The methods in gRPC are defined as RPCs   in the protoiles and it supports   streaming and birectional communication.

  This is an excellent approach for   microservices especially and internal   system communication as it is more   efficient when you're working between   servers compared to GraphQL or compared   to restful APIs. So the difference   between REST GraphQL and gRPC APIs is   kind of clear but let's also clarify the   real difference between REST and GraphQL   APIs on examples.

 So as you saw REST   comes with resource-based endpoints. For   example, here if we take a look at these   requests, you can see that the resource   here is users. So you always expect to   see some users endpoint or some   followers endpoint or let's say posts   endpoint. So it is resource-based. And   sometimes we might need to make multiple   requests for getting the related data.

  As you can see here, we need let's say   the user details, but we also need the   user posts and followers. So in this   case we need to make three requests to   get all of these data and it uses HTTP   methods to define operations. As you can   see these are HTTP endpoints and we are   using the get method specifically and   the response structures are fixed   meaning if you got one response for this   specific user next time you can expect   to have exactly the same response   structure.

 Maybe some data will be   modified but the structure always   remains the same. And it also provides   explicit versioning. So as you can see   it comes with v1 for the v1 API. Then   later if it got a major upgrade then   this will become v2 and so on. And you   can use the headers on the requests to   leverage the http caching on restful   APIs.

 Now if we compare that to graphql   apis it comes with a single endpoint for   all operations. So mostly it is /graphql   or slash some API endpoint that is   commonly used for all operations and in   this case we will use a single request   to get the precise data that we need and   we will use the query language of   GraphQL.

 This is what the query language   looks like. As you can see we start with   a query and then we define what we need.   For example, we need the user with ID 1   2 3. Then we need the name of the user,   the posts and then we define whatever we   need from the posts. Maybe we need only   title and content and nothing more. And   also the followers and what we need from   followers, maybe only names.

 So this   allows us to be more efficient in our   requests compared to restful APIs where   we will need to make free requests for   this same data. This means that client   needs to specify the response structure   and in this case the schema evolution is   without versioning. So here as you saw   it is with v_sub_1, v_sub_2 and so on.

  In this case the schema usually evolves   without versioning. But there is also a   common pattern to start versioning the   fields. For example, you can have   followers v2 and that will be the second   type of followers schema. But you can   also go without versioning. So you can   just start modifying the followers or   posts if you are sure that there are no   other clients using your old API and in   this case you can leverage the   application level caching instead of the   HTTP caching.

 Now let's discuss the   major design principles that will allow   us to create consistent, simple, secure   and also performant APIs. Ultimately the   best API is the one that we can use   without even reading the documentation.   For example, if you saw the previous   endpoints in the users you see that we   have / users/123   and obviously we are expecting to get   the user details of this specific user.

  And if you make a request for example to   that endpoint to fetch user details but   then you find out that it also updates   some followers or something while making   this request then obviously that is a   very bad type of API as we didn't expect   it to do such operations. So first of   all the good API should be consistent   meaning it should use the consistent   naming casing and patterns.

 For example,   if you use camel case in one of the   endpoints, let's say you have user   details and you do this in camel case,   but in another case you do it with a   skinnate case like user/details,   then this is not common and this is not   consistent. The second key principle is   to keep it very simple and focus on core   use cases and intuitive design.

 So you   should minimize complexity and aim for   designs that developers can understand   quickly without even maybe reading the   documentation. And simplicity again   comes down to this which is the best API   is one that developers can use without   even reading the documentation.   Next obviously it has to be secure.

 So   you have to have some sort of   authentication and authorization between   users. Also, if you have inputs, then   you need to make sure that these are   validated and you should also apply rate   limiting. So, these are the most basic   things that you have to do to keep your   APIs secure.

 And the last pillar is   performance. So, you should design for   efficiency with appropriate caching   strategies with pagination. If you have   a large amount of data, let's say   thousands of posts, you don't want to   retrieve all of this whenever they make   a request to get the post. So you should   always have pagination with some limit   and offset.

 Also the payloads meaning   the data that you will send back should   be minimized and also whenever possible   you should reduce the round trips. So if   you have the opportunity to send some   small data along with the request of one   of the endpoints then it's better to do   this if you know that you're going to   use it instead of making another   endpoint for making a request to get the   same data.

 Now each of these APIs use   different protocols and we will learn   more about these in the next lesson. But   basically your protocol choice will   fundamentally shape your API design   options. For example, the features of   HTTP protocol directly enable restful   capabilities. So it makes more sense to   use HTTP along with restful APIs because   it also provides you with status codes   and these are great to be used with   crowd operations that you will have in   restful APIs.

 On the other hand, web   sockets which is another type of   protocol enable realtime data and also   enable birectional APIs. So this can be   used along with realtime APIs wherever   you need some chat application or some   video streaming. This is a good use case   of websocket APIs. In case of graphql   APIs, you again will use the HTTP   protocol instead of websockets or gRPC.

  GRPC on the other hand can be used along   with microservices in your architecture   to make it faster compared to HTTP. So   your protocol choice will affect the API   structure and also the performance and   capabilities. Therefore, you should   choose it based on its limitations and   strengths and the one that makes more   sense in the type of API that you'll be   developing.

 Now, let's discuss the API   design process. It all starts with   understanding the requirements, which is   identifying core use cases and user   stories that you will need to develop.   Also, defining the scope and boundaries   because if it's a huge API, then you   probably won't develop all of the   features at once.

 So you should scope it   to some specific features that you'll be   developing and also what are out of   scope for now. Then you should determine   the performance requirements and   specifically in your API case what will   be the bottlenecks and where you need to   make sure that it's performant and you   should also not overlook the security   constraints.

 So you should implement all   of the basic features like   authentication, authorization, the rate   limiting but maybe some more stuff   depending on the API that you'll   develop. When it comes to design   approaches, there are couple of ways to   go about it. The first one is top-down   approach which is you start with highle   requirements and workflows.

 This is more   common in interviews where they give you   the requirements on what the API will be   about and then you start defining what   the endpoints will be, what the   operations will be and so on. But there   is also the bottom up approach which is   if you have existing data models and   capabilities then you should design the   API based on this.

 So this is more   common when you're working in a company   and they already have their data models   and capabilities of their APIs. So you   should take that into account when   designing the API. And we also have   contract first approach which is you   define the API contract before   implementation meaning what the requests   should look like and what the responses   should look like and this is more   similar to top-down approach and this is   also commonly used in interviews.

 When   it comes to life cycle management of   APIs, it starts with the design phase   where you design the API, discuss the   requirements and the expected outcomes   of the API and only after that you can   start the development and maybe local   testing of your API. After that you   usually deploy and monitor it.

 So you do   some more testing but now on staging or   on production. But then it also comes   the maintenance phase. And this is why   it's important to develop it with   keeping the simplicity in place. So it   will be easier for you to maintain or   for other developers to maintain in the   future.

 And lastly, APIs also go through   deprecation and retirement phase. So   some APIs eventually get deprecated   because there might come up with a new   version of the API that you should use   or let's say you are transitioning from   V1 to V2 API. So that's also the   deprecation phase of the v1 API. So   developing APIs is not only in the   development phase as you might assume   it's not just coding.

 So the big part of   it is designing it and also keeping it   maintainable and also eventually you   might need to retire it at the end. So   let's recap and see what our next steps   are. We learned what APIs are and about   the most dominant free type of API   styles which are restful, GraphQL, and   gRPC.

 We've covered the four key   principles that will guide us when   creating API designs effectively. And   you now also understand how the design   choice of your protocol will influence   the design of your API and also the   whole API design process from start to   finish. But we didn't discuss the   limitations and strengths of these API   protocols.

 So that's why in the next   lesson we will learn all about the API   protocols that we can use with API   design and which one we should choose   based on the requirements of our API.   Choosing the wrong protocol for our API   can lead to performance bottlenecks and   also limitations in functionality.   That's why we need to first understand   these protocols which will allow us to   build APIs that meet our specific user   requirements for latency throughput and   also interaction patterns.

 That's why in   this lesson we'll cover the role of API   protocols in the network stack. The two   fundamental protocols which are HTTP and   HTTPS and also their relationship to   APIs. also another common type of   protocol which is web soocket for   real-time communication. We'll also   cover advanced message queuing protocol   which is commonly used for asynchronous   communication and lastly we'll cover the   gRPC which is Google's remote procedure   call and it is also another common type   of protocol used commonly within   servers. Let's start by understanding   the application protocols in network   stack. Application layer protocols sit   at the top of network stack building on   top of protocols like TCP and UDP which   are at the transport layer. These   protocols at application layer define   the message formats and structures also   the request response patterns and

  management of the connections and error   handling. Now below that we have many   other layers like the network layer or   data link layer or even physical layers.   But when building APIs, we are mostly   concerned with the API layer protocols   which are HTTP, HTTPS, websockets and so   on.

 The most common type of protocol and   also the foundation of web APIs is HTTP   which stands for hypertext transfer   protocol. This is the typical   interaction between client and server   when they are interacting over HTTP. As   you can see, client always sends an   request and they define the method which   can be get, post or other methods and   they define the resource URL which can   be at / API/ products.

 Let's say they   are requesting data for this specific ID   of the product and they also define the   version of the HTTP protocol that they   are using. They also define the host   which is the domain of your server where   the information is accessed and usually   they also authenticate before accessing   any resources.

 So it can be either a   bearer token or a basic authentication   of and so on. So once the request is   authenticated in the server it receives   the response which is in similar format   and it's in HTTP response. So you get   the HTTP version which is again the same   as you requested with and the status   code which can be 200 if it was   successful or it can be 400 if the   client was error or 500 if the error   happened in server and so on.

 You   receive the content type which can be   usually application JSON but it can also   be a static web page or something else.   And there are many other headers that   you can control like controlling cache.   You can use the cache control header or   some other properties. But these are the   main things that you would notice in   HTTP request response cycles.

 Now when   it comes to methods, you have get for   retrieving data, post for creating data   in the server, put or patch for updating   data partially or fully, and delete for   removing data from the server. And when   it comes to status codes which are   received by the server. So you have 200   series which are successful cases you   have 300 for redirection.

 400 means that   client made an error in the request. So   this is an issue from client side or 500   which means that server made an error or   like some error happened in the server   which means that this is the issue in   this server. And these are the common   headers like content type which is   defined by the server usually but also   from the client.

 Authorization for   making a request and authorizing to the   server, accept headers, cache control,   user agent and there are more headers   but these are the common ones. Then we   also have HTTPS which is basically the   same HTTP protocol but with some sort of   TLS or SSL encryption which means that   our data is now protected in transit   when we are making requests.

 So it adds   a security layer through this TLS or SSL   certificates and encryption and it   protects data in the transit and   benefits of HTTPS is obviously your data   is encrypted in the transit. It comes   with data integrity and you also   authenticate users before providing any   data and it also adds SEO benefits and   you have many risks when you are using   HTTP only without any encryption.

 So the   golden standard is to always use HTTPS   in servers. The next type of protocols   are web sockets. While we have HTTP   which is very good at request response   patterns, sometimes HTTP has   limitations. For example, let's say   you're pulling some data. Let's say this   is a user chat. So you have the client   and server.

 On the client side, you have   the user chat and on the server you have   the messages between two users. When one   of the users messages the other, it   sends a request to the server to notify   that a message has been sent. And it   receives a response from the server,   maybe the messages from the other users   if they are any.

 And then next time if   you need to know if you have new   messages, you need to make again another   request to the server and maybe you   don't have any new messages. So you will   receive an empty response with no new   data. So this was basically a   nonnecessary request response cycle and   you might request from some other time   let's say from 1 minute and receive a   response.

 Now you have some messages but   it can be also empty again. So this way   is not ideal for realtime communication.   As you can see, you get increased   latency. You waste some bandwidth with   making requests that are empty and you   also use the server resources without   the need of making requests to the   server.

 And for such cases, we have   websockets which solve this issue. So in   websocket, you have usually a handshake   that is happening within the first   request. And now you have both like   two-side communication between client   and the server. Which means that once   the handshake is been made, the server   can independently decide to push data to   the client.

 Let's say now you have two   new messages on the server. So server   can decide to send these messages to the   client without even client requesting   for it. But client can still request   data. So if client needs some external   data or more data from the server, it   can still make requests. But server is   now also able to independently push data   to the client.

 So this is what unlocks   the real-time data with minimal latency.   As soon as you have some new data in the   server, it pushes the new data to the   client and it also reduces the bandwidth   usage by allowing birectional   communication. In client server model   with HTTP, you would make let's say new   requests per 5 seconds or 10 seconds to   see if there are any new data in the   server.

 But in this scenario, you don't   make any more requests other than the   first one. And now whenever there are   new data, server will push it. And   whenever there are no data to be   requested, then you don't need to make   unnecessary requests to the server. The   next very common type of protocol is   advanced message queuing protocol, which   is an enterprise messaging protocol used   for message queuing and guaranteeing   delivery.

 In this setup, you usually   have the producer which can be either a   web service or payment system or   something like that. And on the other   side, you have the consumer which can be   the processor of the payments or   notification systems and stuff like   that. So producer publishes messages to   the message broker and here is where you   have the advanced message queuing   protocol. You have cues in the middle.

  Let's say one of these cues is for order   processing. So whenever a new order has   been placed, producer publishes a   message to this queue. And then whenever   this consumer is free, it can pull   messages from this queue and start   updating the inventory and data in the   database.

 This allows the consumer to   only pull data from here whenever it has   capacity. And whenever this consumer is   busy with some other tasks, it leaves   the message in the queue and then later   on whenever it has some free capacity,   it will pull the message and start   updating the data. And when it comes to   exchange types, you have direct   one-on-one exchange or fan out or topic   based communication.

 And we will explore   these more when we come to the message   queuing section. The other common type   of protocol is gRPC which works with   protocol buffers. This is a high   performance RPC framework invented by   Google and it uses HTTP2 for transport   meaning the second version of the HTTP.   This means that clients should support   HTTP2 otherwise this can't be used   between client and server but that's why   this is most commonly used between   servers.

 So usually the client is   another server and we have some other   microservices communicating with each   other with this gRPC framework. It   mainly uses protocol buffers and it also   comes with built-in streaming capacities   because it uses HTTP.2.   So these are the most common types of   API protocols. There are many more but   usually in 90% of cases you would see   only these protocols.

 And when choosing   the right one, you should mainly   consider the interaction patterns.   Usually by default you go with HTTP if   it's just a request response cycle. But   if you're building something like   real-time chat or some real-time   communication, then you would need to go   with websockets. The choice also depends   from the performance requirements.

 So if   you have multiple servers, microservices   communicating with each other and there   isn't opportunity to use gRPC for   example then you can go with it to   increase the performance and speed of   the communication. But it also comes   down to client compatibility. For   example, most browsers don't support the   latest version of the HTTP.

 That's why   gRPC isn't that very common for browser   server communication. It also comes down   to the payload size meaning the volume   of the data and encoding security needs   based on the authentication encryption   and so on and also the developer   experience. So the tooling and   documentation and it also comes down to   the developer experience because you're   mostly going to work with this API and   it needs to have good documentation and   tooling for you to fully work with this   type of API protocol. So to recap, we   have explored the role of application   protocols in network stock. The HTTP and   HTTPS which are the most fundamental   types of protocols, web sockets for   real-time communication, AMQP which   stands for advanced message queuing   protocol which allows us to have   asynchronous communication and adding   message cues between the consumer and   producer and also gRPC which stands for

  Google remote procedure call. And the   main advantage of this is that it's high   performance RPC framework which uses   HTTP2 for transport. So we discussed the   application layer which includes these   protocols that we usually use for   building APIs. But we don't know yet   about this transport layer which   includes the TCP and UDP.

 So in the next   lesson we are going to discuss this   layer and understand which of these   transport layers whether TCP or UDP are   the best choice depending on the API   that we are building. Most developers   work with APIs but never think about   what's actually delivering those packets   like how does it happen that the request   is being made from client to server and   how does this request go through the   internet.

 That's where the second layer   comes in in the OSI model, which is the   transport layer that has the TCP and UDP   inside of it. These are both transport   layer protocols, meaning they handle how   data moves from one machine to another   over the network, but both are doing it   very differently. In this lesson, we'll   learn about these transport layer   protocols.

 We'll start with TCP, which   is the reliable but slower version. Then   we'll learn about the UDP which is in   short it's faster and unreliable version   of TCP and we'll compare both of them   and decide which one we need to choose   based on the API requirements. Let's   start with TCP which stands for   transmission control protocol.

 Think of   it like sending a packet with a receipt   tracking and also signature that is   required. So when you send some packets   over the internet you usually don't send   all of it at once. Sometimes the data is   larger. Let's say it's divided in three   chunks. So you need to send them   separately.

 The first chunk, the second   chunk, and also the third chunk. So in   this case, TCP guarantees delivery of   all of these three chunks. If one of   these packets is lost or arrives out of   order, TCP will resend or reorder it.   It's also connection based which means   that before sending any data it performs   a three-way handshake which is   establishing the connection between   client and server.

 It also orders these   packets. Let's say the client receives   the first packet first then the third   packet then the second packet. It makes   sure that it's reordered to first,   second and third. This of course adds   overhead but it ensures that it's   accurate and reliable. That's why APIs   that involve payments authentication or   user data always use TCP.

 On the other   hand, we have UDP which stands for user   datagramgram protocol. It's fast and   efficient. But the downside of this is   that it doesn't guarantee that all of   the packets will arrive. For example, if   you're sending four packets from the   server to the client, one of these   packets might be lost and it won't be   pushed to the client and UDP won't make   sure that this eventually gets   delivered.

 So, there is no delivery   guarantee. There is also no handshake or   connection or any sort of tracking. But   because of these trade-offs, it is   faster transmission and it comes with   less overhead as it doesn't need to make   sure that all of the packets are   delivered or in the correct order. For   example, in video calls, UDP can be the   best protocol because if some   information was cut in the middle or   let's say you're in a call with someone   and their internet connection lacks, you   don't need to receive that old   connection or the old data on what they   said because you are in the call right   now. So UDP is the go-to for video   calls, online games, or live streams   because if one of these packets drops,   it's still fine and you don't need to go   back and resend this packet. You can   just move on and send the next packets.   This is what the three-step handshake   looks like in TCP. As you can see, the   first step is that client sends a

  request to the server. In the second   step, server syncs and acknowledges the   request. And in the first step, the   client acknowledges the server and this   is where the connection is established   between the client and server. And now   they can start sending data back and   forth on top of this TCP protocol.

 So in   short, TCP is the safer and reliable   version of UDP, but it is slower. And on   the other hand, UDP is faster and   lightweight, but it is risky. For   example, if one of the packets in   between the source and destination is   lost, it doesn't resend it. So there is   no guaranteed delivery. But on the other   hand, if in TCP one of the packets is   lost after some time out, it still   resends the first packets.

 And this way   it guarantees that all data will be   delivered compared to UDP where some   data might be lost, but it will still   keep going. And when choosing between   those two, these are the main things   that you need to look for. If you need   the connection to be safe and reliable,   then you need to go with TCP.

 Or if you   need it to be fast, lightweight, but   some data loss might be acceptable, then   you will need to go with UDP. For   example, it is best for using TCP in   bankings, emails, payments, and so on.   And on the other hand, UDP is mostly   used in video streaming, streaming,   gaming, and so on. These are the main   things that you need to know about the   application and transport layers.

 And   these are the only layers that will need   to be used to building APIs. And in the   next lesson, we will learn about restful   APIs and how we usually design APIs in   restful format. Restful APIs let   different parts of a system talk to each   other using the standard HTTP methods.   They are the most common way developers   build and consume APIs today.

 And in   this video, you'll learn how to design   clean REST APIs by following the proven   best practices so that you avoid   creating messy and inconsistent patterns   that make the APIs hard to use and   maintain. We'll start by learning about   the architectural principles and   constraints of restful APIs, about the   resource modeling and URL design.

 Also,   the status codes and the error handling   as well as filtering, sorting, and so   on. and we'll learn the best practices   when using and developing restful APIs.   Let's start from the resource modeling.   Resources are the core concepts in REST.   Let's say you have the business domain   which consists of the products, orders,   and reviews.

 When modeling these to a   restful API, you usually convert this   into nouns and not verbs. Meaning that   the product becomes products, order   becomes orders, and same for the   reviews. These can be collections or   individual items. For example, this   first request which is to / API/   products will return you the collection   of products, not a single product.

 But   on the other hand, you could have slash   products and slashsp specific ID of a   product which will return you the   individual item. And notice that we are   using /roducts when retrieving the   collection of products. And we are not   using something like get products which   will be not a best practice in restful   APIs.

 As I mentioned we are using nouns   here and not verbs. So to fetch orders   for example you don't define the URL as   get orders. You just define it as slash   orders and depending on the method that   we'll use. Let's say it's a get method   then you will retrieve the orders. If   it's a post method then you will create   an order and so on.

 So all the resources   should be clearly identifiable through   the URLs. For instance, this is an   example of getting a collection. This is   an example of getting a specific item.   And also nested resources should be   clear defined. For example, if you want   to retrieve reviews for some specific   product, then we would assume that if   you make a request to SL products/ ID of   that product and then SL reviews, you   would get the reviews for that specific   product.

 But in real world APIs, you   rarely want to return all the results at   once. That's why we usually incorporate   filtering, sorting, and pagination in   APIs. So let's start from the filtering.   For example, if you make a request to   get all the products, you usually add   some query parameter which in this case   you can see it's category.

 So you're   first of all filtering them by category.   And then also with the end sign you add   that they should be in stock. So the in   stock should be true. And this way you   are only returning the items that you're   going to display on the UI and you're   not making some requests that will waste   the bandwidth of this API and also it   will be a huge response for you in the   front end side.

 Next you also have   sorting. In this case again it's   controlled through the query parameters   and query parameters are anything that   start after the question mark in the   URL. So in this case you usually pass   the sort attribute and this can be for   example ascending by price or ascending   by reviews or it can be also the   descending order.

 So based on this you   will get the response from the API in a   sorted order because if you for example   have thousand items in the back end in   the database you don't want to retrieve   all of these in unsorted order to the   front end because let's say the front   end now needs to sort them by the price   ascending.

 This means that it needs to   make request to get all of the products   which are these thousand items that you   have in the database. So that will be   very inefficient. That's why we do the   sorting in the back end instead. So your   back end should support sorting   functionality. This way the front end   can just make a request to your back end   and pass this sort query parameter and   then that way it will get the sorted   products to be displayed on the screen.

  And next we also have pagination. Again   with the query parameter you usually   pass the page which you want to retrieve   and also the limit because if you don't   pass the limit then again it will give   you all of the products starting from   the page two till the end which can be a   lot of items.

 So you also pass some sort   of limit and that limit is whatever   you're going to display on the front end   and then based on that you will get the   response and here let's say you fetched   10 items. So you're going to display   those 10 on the UI and then once they   click on the next page you will make   another request to the page three this   time and you will get the next items   from the server.

 Now usually we use page   for pagination but there is another   common attribute that is offset. So some   APIs use offset instead of the page and   they use this in combination with limit   which basically means if you have   thousand items. So offset will tell the   API from where to start counting this   thousand items and then limit is the   same as you have it here.

 So it's   basically limiting the number of items   that you are getting from this offset to   retrieve to the front end. And the last   option you can also have this cursor   based. So instead of page and limit you   would pass a cursor which will be the   hash of the page you want to retrieve.   So this approach of adding filtering   sorting and pagination comes with   benefits.

 So first of all it saves the   bandwidth of your server. It also   improves the performance both in the   server side and on the front end side   and it also gives the front end more   flexibility because now you can fetch   only the things that you need and not   some unnecessary data from the database.   Now let's come to the HTTP methods that   rest APIs use because they rely on HTTP   protocol and hence they are using the   HTTP methods especially for crowd   operations.

 So these are the most common   types of crowd operations you would see   in REST APIs. First of all we have the   get method which is used for reading   data from the API. So this is for   retrieving resources as you saw like   retrieving the products, retrieving the   reviews and so on. And the URL usually   looks like this.

 You you make a get   request to the / API/ version of the API   slash the resource name. And these type   of requests are both safe and item   ponent. Which basically means if you   make a request to slash products two or   three times, you expect to receive the   exact same output every time unless some   new products obviously have been added   to the database.

 Next, we have the post   method. This is usually when you're   creating a resource in your server. The   common example is again you will make   the request to exact same endpoint as   you have it for the get to create a   collection but in this case instead of   get you are using post method and this   tells the API that you need to create a   resource in the products and not   retrieve them.

 These type of requests   change the state of the server. They are   adding a new item and also they are not   item ponent which means that they are   creating a resource. So the first time   you create a resource you will get the   ID of the first item that you created.   The second time you create it you will   get the ID of the second one and so on.

  Next we have the put and patch methods   which are very similar but they are   updating resources in your API but they   do it a bit differently. The put method   replaces the whole resource whereas the   patch method partially updates the   resource in your API. Now you can see   that the request URL is exactly the same   in both of their cases.

 So it's to SL   products SL ID of a product you want to   modify just in case of the put request   it will take this whole product with the   ID of 1 2 3 and it will basically   replace it with the new one that is   coming from the front end. Whereas in   case of the patch it will again take   this item from the database with ID 1 2   3 but it will update it partially.

 Let's   say you just updated the title from the   front end and you made the request patch   method. So this will only update the   title of this product and it will leave   the other parts other properties   unchanged. And the last crowd operation   is delete and we use delete method in   this case and obviously as the name   tells it deletes the resource from the   database.

 So again the URL is exactly   the same as you have for modifying   items. it's to /roucts/ id of the   resource and in this case you are not   passing anything in the request body. So   you are just making a delete request to   this item and you are removing this from   the database and each of these   operations return you different status   codes depending on how the request went   whether it was successful or not.

 For   that we have status codes and error   handling in restful APIs. So you should   use the appropriate status codes when   working with REST APIs. For example, the   200 series are for successful requests.   For example, 200 is okay. 200 is   resource has been created. 204 is there   is no content here.

 Let's say you made a   request the previous request we were   talking about to /roucts/ some ID of a   product and you successfully retrieved   this item. This means that you also need   to set the status code to 200 because   the request has been successful. In the   other case where you're creating a   product and you're making a post request   to / products, this time you shouldn't   response with the same 200 code because   200 generally means that the status was   okay.

 But in 2011 case, it means that   the resource has been created. And in   this case, since you're creating a new   product, you should obviously response   with the 2011 status code, meaning   resource has been created. We also have   300 series which are for redirection.   Let's say you make a request to a URL   and now this URL has been moved to   somewhere else.

 So it will respond with   a 300 series and it will redirect you to   the new URL. In 400 series, we have the   client errors. So this is whenever your   front end made a bad request or the user   made a bad request. For example, 400 is   a generic bad request. In 401 we have   unauthorized requests meaning the user   is not authenticated to make this   request. For 404 we have not found.

 So   generally when you visit some URL or you   make a request for some specific   resource that doesn't exist, you would   get this 404 status code. So for 400   case, let's say you made a request with   invalid parameters or some wrong JSON   format. In this case, you would get a   generic 400 repair request.

 But if a   user makes a request to some to get some   product which is let's say the product   with this ID and it doesn't exist in the   database after querying it, then you   should respond with the 404 status code,   meaning that the resource has not been   found. And lastly, we have 500 series.   These are things when error happens in   your server.

 So you don't know the exact   reason and it's also not a client error   meaning client requested everything   properly and in this case we throw   unexpected server side errors. You   generally respond with a server error   message and you return the 500 status   code along with it. When it comes to   best practices of restful APIs, first of   all notice that we are using plural   nouns for all of the resources.

 So   instead of slashroduct we are using /   products for retrieving the products   collection. So you should always use the   plural in this case. Also in the crowd   operations we use the proper HTTP   methods. For example when making a   request to delete users we expect to   make a request to users/ ID of a user   and not some post request to/ users/ ID.

  So first of all the HTTP methods needs   to be properly set up and also the URL.   We don't expect some random things like   /delete to delete a resource from the   database. As you saw we also support   filtering sorting and pagination in good   rest APIs. Not only pagination for   example in this case we only have the   page free but we cannot limit the amount   of products that we want to retrieve.

  Whereas in this case we can fully   control what we want to get from the   API. We want to get the items from page   three. We want these number of limit to   be applied on the products. And we also   want to apply some sort like sorting to   sort the price or sort by ratings and so   on.

 And also versionings in the restful   APIs. As you noticed in all of these   requests, they all come with a prefix   which is / API and then slash the ID of   the API which is either v_sub_1, v2, v3   and so on. Because let's say in the   future you migrate your API and you   start using bunch of new features but   you also break something in the previous   version one then if you use the   versioning you won't break it on the   front end because they can use the old   version of your API and still use the   old features and functionalities while   you continue to develop the new version   let's say version three and you support   new features here and you might have   broken something here but they are still   using the old API so this doesn't impact   the end users. So to recap, we learned   about the rest architectural principles   and constraints. Also about the resource   modeling and URL design and how we model

  the business domain into the restful API   domain. Also the status codes, error   handling and the proper methods to be   used with the basic crowd operations.   And lastly, we covered the best   practices for restful APIs that you   should use to keep your APIs consistent   and also predictable for other   developers who are using it.

 Traditional   restful APIs often return too much or   too little data which requires us to do   multiple requests for a single view to   get all the data that we need. GraphQL   solves this issue by giving clients   exactly what they requested for. But   designing GraphQL APIs is different from   designing restful APIs.

 That's why in   this video we'll cover the core concepts   of GraphQL and why it exists. The schema   design and type system of GraphQL   queries and mutations, error handling,   and also best practices for designing   GraphQL APIs. Let's start by   understanding why GraphQL exists in the   first place.

 It was created by Facebook   to solve a very specific pain which is   clients needing to make multiple API   calls and still not getting the exact   data that they needed. For example, if   you imagine we have the Facebook APIs   like user API, posts API, comments and   likes for the Facebook page. Most of the   times client can make requests to all of   these APIs separately and still not get   all the data that it needs which will   require it to do multiple requests to   the same API.

 This of course adds up to   the overall latency of the page because   the page is still not loaded until all   of these requests are made and the data   is fetched. But in case of GraphQL APIs,   you have a single GraphQL endpoint. So   the client specifies the shape of the   response and this one endpoint handles   all of the data interactions.

 It is   still an HTTP request but as you can see   we can specify the exact data that we   need. For example, we need the user with   ID 1 2 3 and we need only the name of   the user also posts and from the posts   we can specify only title. So we don't   need the images for this view. And again   with the comments you can specify the   exact data that you need within the   object so that you are not doing   overfetching of the data.

 Now let's see   the schema design and type system of   GraphQL and how it's different from   restful APIs. The schema in this case is   a contract between the client and   server. In schema, first of all, you   have types which can be for example user   type that you specify and you specify   all the fields that exist on this user   type which are id, name, posts and so on   and as you can see if the type is not a   primitive type like posts then you can   specify another type of post array and   then this post type can be defined   separately. Next we have queries to read   data. So this is the equivalent of doing   get requests in restful API. You specify   the query and the function of this   query. This can be the user query which   fetches the user with specific ID and   also the return type of this query which   in this case is the user type that we   defined above. And graphqls also come   with mutations. You can think of this as

  the equivalent to post, put, patch and   delete methods in restful APIs. So   anytime you are mutating a data in the   database, you are making a mutation   query. Here as you can see we have an   example of create user method which   accepts name and of course many things   in real world and then it returns the   user type that we have defined above.

 So   if you have good schema design in   graphql it should mirror your domain   model and it should be intuitive and   flexible. Next once you defined the   schema design and type system you can   start querying and mutating data with   this GraphQL API. For that we have   queries for fetching data. Again this is   like the get requests in restful APIs   and here you can specify exactly what   you need from the user.

 This is the same   user method that we defined there in the   schema. So here you can also specify the   exact attributes like the name posts and   from posts you need the title only and   this will make a request to your graphql   API and return the exact data that you   requested. Similarly you can also use   the mutations that you defined.

 For   example, if you have a create post   method defined as a mutation, you can   use this to mutate the post. For   example, setting the title and body of   the post and then you also specify what   data you need to retrieve after this   post is created, which is ID and title.   When it comes to error handling in   GraphQL APIs, this is a bit different   than in restful APIs.

 Since GraphQL   always returns 200 okay status for all   responses even if there was an error. In   this case we have to return errors field   in the response which will indicate that   there was an error. So partial data can   still be returned with errors like in   this case we have the user which is null   and then we have the errors field which   indicates that you have the status code   404 message not found and path which is   the user in your schema.

 As you can see   in this case, you can specify the status   code in the errors array. Since we are   returning 200 status codes for all   GraphQL requests that's why we have the   status code specifically mentioned in   the errors so that we know what kind of   error this is, which is user not found.   There are also best practices that we   normally follow when designing GraphQL   APIs.

 First of all, the schemas that we   saw, it's a good practice to keep them   small and modular. Also, we should avoid   deeply nested queries. For example, you   can have a user and then nested post and   then within the post you can have a   comment. So this can be infinitely   nested and to avoid that we usually   implement query limit depths which is   how deep you can go like how many layers   nested you can have in your data.

 So you   specify something like six or seven   layers deep. We also use meaningful   naming for types and fields so that it   also makes from the client side because   they both are going to use the same   schema. And when mutating data, we   always use the input types for   mutations. Before a system can authorize   or restrict anything, it first needs to   know the identity of the requesttor.

  Whether it's a user accessing our   service through a browser or through   mobile app or it's a third-party service   trying to access our system. That's what   authentication does. It verifies that   the user or service trying to access our   system is who they claim to be. But here   is where most software engineers confuse   or mix up concepts.

 They mix up   authentication methods with   authorization frameworks. They treat JWT   as an authentication method when in   reality it's just a token format. They   also confuse the bearer authentication   with JWT. They sometimes call O of 2 an   authentication method when in reality   it's actually an authorization framework   and they mix up single sign on with   authentication methods when it's really   a user experience pattern.

 In this   video, we are going to fix all of that   by covering first of all what   authentication is and then all the major   types of authentication starting from   basic to digest authentication to API   keys, sessions and cookies, bearer   authentication and JWT tokens. What are   access and refresh tokens? Also, we'll   cover O of 2, Open ID connect.

 also   single sign on and identity protocols   and understand what each one actually is   and where this all fits. Let's first   understand what is authentication and   then we'll get into the different   authentication methods. So   authentication really answers one simple   question which is who the user is   whoever is trying to access our system.

  Let's say you have your system like your   API gateway, the layer of APIs, then   your service layer and also the data   storage. Before anyone can make requests   to your API gateway and start accessing   services and data, they first need to be   authenticated. That is where they send a   login request.

 This comes either from a   user or another service. This is where   we confirm their identity if it's valid   and grant access to our system to our   API gateway and all the other services   or if the identity is not confirmed then   we reject it with a 401 unauthorized   response. This is the first step before   they will get into the authorization   which is what they can access and what   they can do once they can sign into your   system but that's a separate discussion   in itself.

 So in this one we are   primarily focusing on the authentication   and different authentication methods   that we can use to verify the user's   identity. Now let's see the different   authentication methods that we have to   verify the identity of the requesttor   and let's start with the basic   authentication methods. These are the   basic of digest authentication API keys   and sessionbased authentication.

 Let's   start with the very first one on the   list which is the basic authentication   flow. This is the simplest form of   authentication. Let's say you're making   a request to the server to access some   resource like API/ users to retrieve the   user data. You will first receive an   unauthorized response because you didn't   provide the credentials.

 So we prompt   the user or the service to provide   credentials before accessing any   resource in the server. So in the   upcoming request to the same resource   they also provide the authorization   header and this header contains the base   64 encoded version of the username and   password for this user. This is where we   verify it on the server side.

 If the   credentials are valid, then we respond   with 200 okay status with the user data   returned in the body or we unauthorize   it again marking these as credentials   invalid. The problem with this method is   that base 64 is easily reversible. So   this is an insecure method unless it is   wrapped with HTTPS protocol and even   then it's rarely used nowadays in   production outside of the internal tools   because you're sending the credentials   with every request and you're sending   the base 64 encoded version which is not   that secure. That's why we also have a   digest authentication which is slightly   better and it uses the MD5 hashing. So   this method works similar to the   authentication with basic version. So   you are let's say trying to access the   same resource like the users. It will

  first respond with 401 unauthorized   prompting you to include the credentials   and then you'll make the same request   but with the hashed response and that   will also contain the MD5 hash version   instead of the plain password and   username. And same process as the   previous one. If the credentials are   invalid, you will receive 401   unauthorized.

 Otherwise, you will   receive the successful response with the   user data in the request body. This is   slightly better than the basic off as it   uses the MD5 hashing, but it's still   outdated and rarely used today because   we have better options as you will see   soon. And if you're wondering how do we   set these options in the authorization,   for instance, if you're making the   request from Postman or if you're doing   this from the code, then you'll include   it as the header in the request.

 This is   where you can set the authentication   type and you will notice the things that   we're discussing here like the basic   authentication which was the first   version or digest authentication which   is the second version and you will see   the other methods available here also   the API key option and Postman calls all   of these authentication types to just   keep it simple on the interface but   that's also one of the reasons why   developers get confused and they think   that all of these are authentication   types when some of them are   authentication methods, some of them are   authorization frameworks. Next, we have   API key authentication. This is where   you generate a unique key for each   client. Then then they send it with each   request to access the resources. So for   the same request as we discussed it   comes to your API server first and it   will include either authorization header

  or X API key and that will include the   API key that you generated for the user.   These API keys are typically stored in a   database with key hash and also the   scopes for the API key. And for   instance, if you ever tried to access   APIs by generating a key on the   dashboard and then it gives you the   keyback which you can attach to the   requests, that is where you already used   the API key of that service to access   the data.

 So if you included that key in   the request then the server will first   do an API key lookup in the permissions   or users table and if it's able to   verify that the API key is valid then we   will authorize the request and send the   successful response with the data in the   response body otherwise the user will   get a 401 unauthorized response and if   the key is missing overall like the   authorization header or XAPI key then we   just return a 400 bad request because   the API key is required to access this   type of system. One issue with API keys   is that if the key ever leaks, then   anyone can use it and start accessing   the resources on your behalf with your   API key and there is no built-in   expiration unless you implement it   yourself. Another thing is that this   might seem similar to JSON web tokens,

  but API keys are just random strings   with no embedded information. While in   JWT, we can store also information as   you will see it shortly. So the server   here has no way to know who owns the key   or what permissions they have without   looking it up in the database. Next, we   have the traditional web approach, which   is the sessionbased authentication.

 This   is where a user logs in with their   credentials and then we create a session   in some sort of session storage. This   session storage can be as simple as just   in memory like just a variable. But the   problem here is that we will lose it   once the server restarts or crashes. The   other option is we can use tools like   radius which is one of the most common   ones in production because it's fast and   it supports expiration for the sessions   or we can use a dedicated database here   like SQL type of database. Another   option which is very rare is to use the   file system of the server that you're   using. The problem with this one is that   it's not scalable and overall radius is   usually the go-to for production because   it's fast and has built-in key   expiration. So with the first request,   we are fetching the session ID and then   we set the session cookie on the client

  side. Then for any other upcoming   requests that contain this cookie, we   look up the session in the session   storage here. And then if the session is   valid, we will get back the user data   and we will send it with authorized   response. Otherwise, if it's not found,   if we can't find the session, then this   user is not authenticated.

 So we send   them an unauthorized response. One   challenge with session based   authentications is that it is stateful,   which means that the server must   remember the sessions. We need to have   some sort of session storage here and it   works great for traditional web apps but   cannot scale as easily for APIs or   distributed systems.

 Now let's look at   token based authentication. We'll cover   better authentication, JWT tokens,   access and refresh tokens and how this   compares to the sessionbased   authentication. Instead of sessions,   modern applications usually use tokens.   So the client sends a token with each   requests. For example, we have a login   with credentials where user will include   their credentials in the authorization   header which will include the type of   authentication which is bearer and also   the token which we will validate on the   server side. One thing developers   confuse here is the bearer token and   JSON web tokens. Bearer token just means   whoever has this token gets access. So   it's a pattern but not a specific   method. And the most common type of beer   token is JWT JSON web token. It's   basically a signed JSON object that

  contains the user ID or email for us to   validate the user also expiration time   and other claims as we need to store   them like roles, permissions and so on.   So what we do on the authentication   server is we validate the credentials   once we receive that authorization   header and it is stateless meaning that   we don't need a database here to look up   and that is why it's also scalable   compared to the sessionbased   authentication before the JWT let's say   revolution a token was just a string   with no information and that token was   sent and then this was looked up in some   sort of database and only then we could   verify that the user has access. The   downside of that was that of course it's   still stateful because we need the   database access or cache which is   required every time the token is used   with JSON web tokens. Now we can encode

  and verify by signing their own claims.   And this is what now allows us to issue   a short-lived JWT tokens that are   stateless, meaning they are   self-contained and they don't depend on   anybody else. They do not need to hit   the database and this reduces the   database's load and it also simplifies   the authentication process for the   server.

 So the first time we will   receive the credentials and validate the   user and if it is valid we will generate   the JSON web token and send it to the   client. From this point forward the   client can make requests and include   this bearer token which is this   authorization header that contains the   bearer authentication with the token and   that token is most cases it is a JSON   web token.

 we verify that signature   locally without needing to hit the   database. And if the token is valid, we   return the requested data. Otherwise, we   return an unauthorized response. Modern   systems also use two types of tokens.   One of them is the access token and the   other one is the refresh tokens. The   reason we need two tokens here is that   access tokens are short-lived and they   are used for API calls to the server   while the refresh tokens are long lived   and they are used to get new access   tokens basically to renew the access   token. Whenever user sends a login   request and signs in, they get both of   these tokens. We generate an access   token that's valid for 15 minutes to 1   hour and we generate a refresh token   that can last for days or even weeks.   Client now will use the access token to

  access the API and make the requests and   it also stores the refresh tokens. One   important note here is that we never   store it in local storage but we store   it in HTTP only cookies. This prevents   us from XSS attacks on the client side.   And after this, user will stay logged in   without re-entering credentials.

 If   their access token expires, they will   get an unauthorized response. And this   is where we will use that refresh token   which we stored to generate a new access   token on the offserver side. We can make   a request with that new token. And this   will successfully return us the data   since we renewed the access token.

 Next,   let's get into OAF2 and open ID connect   which are some of the misunderstood   concepts and let's clarify whether these   are authentication methods or   authorization frameworks and how they   work. Oaf 2 is one of the concepts that   is often misunderstood. It's an   authorization framework and not an   authentication.

 So it answers what can   this app access on behalf of the user.   For instance, if you want to grant an   application access to your Google Drive   to be able to read your files from   there, you would typically connect your   Google Drive for this external   application and you're giving the app   permission to access your data.

 The way   it works is it first will redirect you   to consent screen from the Google of   authentication and it will show you the   permission request and if you allow   access for this application to be able   to read the drive files on your behalf.   Then it will return the authorization   code to this external application or it   can also be your application.

 And the   way it works after that is that you   exchange the code for token and you   return the access token from Google oath   to be able to read the data. That is the   confusing part because you're getting   back an access token for the Google   Drive API and you might think that this   is an authentication method but the   access token just proves that the app   can access your resources.

 But it   doesn't tell the app who you are. It   just proves that the app is allowed to   access certain resources from your   Google Drive. So after this point, the   application will be able to request   files with that token and return the   user files from Google Drive API. Next,   we have open id connect which adds   authentication on top of 2.

 So when you   click on sign in to Google let's say via   your app it will redirect you to the   authorization endpoint and this will   show you the login screen where you   grant access to sign in to Google   through your application. If you enter   your credentials and consent then the   provider will return the authorization   code and after this step your   application will exchange the code for   tokens and return the access token in   combination with the ID token.

 From here   the access token is for OF2   authorization but the ID token is a JSON   web token that contains your identity   which includes your email or username   user ID which means that after this   point your application is able to verify   the signature and extract the user's   identity to send the ID token for   verification to your back end.

 And by   having this ID token, your application   can now create its own session and grant   the access token for that user. This is   a modern solution. It's secure and also   scales well. And that's also why most   applications nowadays use that type of   authentication like sign in with Google,   GitHub, Microsoft, and so on.

 And   lastly, let's cover single sign on and   identity protocols. Single sign on is a   user experience, not an authentication   method, which means that you're able to   login once but access multiple services.   For example, when you want to log to   Google or octa, let's say you want to   get access to your Gmail, to your Google   Drive, to YouTube, to Google calendar,   you can do this by logging in once to   the identity provider.

 Let's say it can   be Google in this case. if you want to   access these services and single sign on   uses identity protocols underneath to   validate these sessions. So once you   sign in with the identity provider let's   say it's Google in this case your global   session is stored in a session storage   and then you get back a single sign on   cookie to your client to be able to   access other resources.

 So let's say you   want to access Gmail for the first time   then once you log in you verify also the   session and now you're able to access   Gmail and for the next request if you   need to access Google Drive for the next   one you don't need to login again   because you have this cookie and the   session stored in the session storage so   we just verify your session and if it's   valid then you get access to Google   Drive as well and similarly to YouTube   to Google calendar and other services as   I mentioned single signon uses identity   protocols underneath and these protocols   are SL which is security assertion   markup language or open ID connect both   of these are identity protocols which   are used in combination with single sign   on in case of SL to be able to access   the app you're redirected to login and   this is where we use SL for   authentication

  this is a common solution ution in   enterprise and legacy systems like   Salesforce, corporate dashboards and so   on. It is an XML based protocol. So once   you want to sign in, you are redirected   to login and then you get back the   sample assertion in XML format and after   that your identity is confirmed for the   user and now you're able to access the   third party application.

 SL is still   widely used but it's an older version   compared to open ID connect. So the next   option is the open ID connect as an   identity protocol. Let's say you want to   access an app and in this case it's   Gmail. You will be redirected to login   to provide your credentials. And once   you provide your credentials, the user   is authenticated.

 And now you get back   the ID token in JSON web token format.   And this is what you will use for   confirming your identity with Gmail.   This is for instance what Google uses   under the hood. and it's a more modern   approach compared to SL, but both of   them are still very secure and relevant.   These are the most common types of   authentication and that is just the   first step for accessing our system.

  After you know who the user is with   authentication, you need to also know   what they can do and what permissions   they have. The authentication is just   the first step before users can access   your service. So this tells you who the   user is and if they are allowed to   access your service.

 That is when they   send a login request and you confirm or   deny their identity. But after that you   also have the authorization step which   tells you what resources exactly this   user can access to. Basically it tells   you what they can do what the user can   do in your system. And that is what we   will cover next in the next video.

  Authorization is the step that happens   after authentication. Once someone is   logging in into our system. So once   their login request is approved which   means that the system now knows who the   user is. The next step is deciding what   they can do which is the step of   authorization.

 It needs to check what   resources or actions that user has   permissions to access and also what are   the denied actions for this user. This   is how we control security and privacy   in the systems. And in this video you'll   learn how applications and systems   manage permissions using the three main   authorization models.

 The first one is   role based access control. Next we have   attribute based access control. Also   access control list which is another way   of managing authorization. Plus you'll   learn how technologies like of2 and gvts   help us to enforce those rules in   practice. So authentication happens   first which tells us who the user is and   if they are allowed to access our   system.

 But on the next step we have   authorization which determines what you   can actually do as a user in this   system. If we take a look at GitHub as   an example and accessing repositories on   GitHub there you have different   permissions for different users. For   example, user A can have write access   only which means they can only push code   to this repo.

 But on the other hand, we   can have user B and here you can grant   only read access which means they can   only read this repository but they   cannot push code to it or they cannot   create pull requests and so on. And on   the other side we can have also admin   users which have full control. So they   can manage all the settings for the   repository.

 They can even decide to   delete this repository and so on. So you   can see that different users can have   different access controls on systems. To   manage these access controls, we have   common authorization models. So the one   that we just looked at is the role based   authentication model which assigns roles   to users something like admin, editor or   readonly access, write only access.

 And   this is the most common approach among   these authorization models. But we also   have attribute-based access control   which is based on the user or resource   attributes. So this is more flexible and   more complex compared to the role-based   authentication. And the other common   approach is to have access control lists   ACL and each resource here has its own   permissions list.

 So you can assign   permission lists to a resource and this   is what will determine what resources   you can access. For example, this is a   common way of managing Google Docs and   we will look at this in more detail now.   And each of these models has its   tradeoffs, pros and cons. So this   depends on the specific system   requirements.

 But real systems often   combine also multiple models together to   have more complex and more secure setup.   So first up we have RO based access   control or RBAC as an an acronym. Here   users are assigned to roles and each   role has a defined set of permissions.   For example, as you saw with the GitHub,   you can have admins and admins usually   have full access to all resources.

 So   they can create, they can read or update   resources. They can even delete   resources and also manage other users in   the roles. And next you have editor   which is usually a bit less than admin.   So they can edit content like creating   or reading content or updating resources   but they cannot delete resources and   they cannot also manage other users.

 And   next you can have viewer users which can   only read data. So they can read the   resources and content but they cannot   update anything or they cannot create   anything in your system. This is the   most common way in authorization models   and this is used in apps that you use   daily like you saw with GitHub or stride   dashboards or CMS tools, team management   tools and so on.

 The next model is   attribute-based access control or ABAC   in short. This access control goes   beyond the roles. So it uses the user   attributes or resource attributes and   environment conditions to define the   access. Some example policy you can see   here. Let's say you want to only allow   access if some conditions are met.

 In   this case, whenever the user department   is set to HR and you can combine this   with multiple conditions like whenever   the resource attribute equals to   internal and so on and only in this case   you allow them access and you either   allow them read access or write access.   So this can also be combined with the   role based authorization.

  But in this case you are checking the   user model or resource model in your   database and based on the attributes you   either allow or deny the access. So here   as you can see we are checking user   attributes like the department the age   or whatever you want to check here. Next   you can also combine it with resource   attributes like confidentiality or the   owner of the resource or classification.

  And this can also be combined with   environment like time of the day,   location, device type, and so on. Since   you're combining these attributes to   either grant or restrict access, this is   more flexible than the role-based   authorization, but it requires good   policy management and generally it's   more complex and you can encounter   conflicts here with the attribute-based   access control.

 The third common type is   the access control lists. Instead of   providing role based access or attribute   based access, you can have access   control list for the specific resource.   Let's say you have a resource like a   document or a JSON file. And here you   can have a permission list on which   users can access this document like user   Alice has only read access or user Bob   has both read and write access and   another user has no access to this   document.

 So as you can see we're   managing two things here. First of all,   which users are allowed to access this   document and second, what are their   permissions? So each of the users has   different permissions on this document.   ACL's are highly specific and also user   centric, which means it's hard to scale   them well in systems with millions of   users or objects unless you manage them   carefully.

 But for example, Google drive   is one example of this where you have   documents like a Google doc and then you   share this Google doc with your   colleagues, right? So you share someone   with read access only and then you share   this doc with someone else but now they   can also edit and add comments to this   document.

 So this is a example of ACL   access control list which is used in   Google Drive and Google documents. This   gives you more control over resources   and documents, but it's also harder to   scale with millions of users, but it's   possible as you can see because Google   Drive is using this for their documents,   Excel sheets and so on.

 So these were   the access control models. But how do   systems enforce those authorizations?   These are where O of 2 and GVt or access   tokens come into play. So first we have   OF2 which is delegated authorization   which is a protocol used when service   wants to access another services   resources on a behalf of a user.

 For   example, if you want to let a third   party app read your GitHub repositories.   Let's say you're deploying your app to   Versel. So you need to give Versel   control over your repository on GitHub.   Instead of giving your username and   password to the third party application   which won't be secure at all because you   don't know what they can do with your   username and password.

 This way you are   giving them full control. Instead,   GitHub gives them the token that   represents the permissions which you   approved to use. So you as a user send a   request with the third party app to   request access to your repositories and   then GitHub gives you the access token   which you should create. So you should   also provide what resources, what   repositories this third party app can   access and also what they can do.

 Can   they create, read, update or can they   delete or whatever the permissions you   set and then GitHub sends them the token   which contains the permissions which   this third party app is allowed to use   and OF2 defines the flow for securely   issuing and validating those tokens. So   you give them the access token and not   your password which represents the   permissions that you approve personally.

  So it can be reading specific repos or   also creating pushing to those   repositories but not deleting those   repositories. And next we have also   token based authorization using GVt or   bearer tokens and permission logic. Once   a user is authenticated, most systems   use a token typically a GV token or this   can be also bear token that carries this   information like user ID, the roles like   admin or editor and also scopes which is   what scopes they are allowed to access   and whenever this token is expiring and   who is the issuer of this token. So   whenever a user makes a request, it   always carries this token information   and reaches to the backend server. This   is where the server will check your   token and validity and it will apply the   appropriate permission logic. So to not   confuse this with authorization models,   there is a key distinction. The token   usually carries the identity and claims

  of your user as you see it here. But   authorization models like role based or   attribute-based this is what defines   what is allowed to access as a user. So   tokens are just mechanisms while these   are authorization models. So in summary   authorization isn't just letting users   in like authentication but it also   controls what they can access once they   are in.

 We learned what authorization   is, what are the three most common   authorization models which are role   based, attribute-based and access   control lists. And also you saw a couple   of real world examples like how GitHub   manages your authorization tokens. And   this should give you an idea on when to   use each model based on the system that   you're building.

 And you also saw some   implementation patterns with O of 2 or   GVT tokens. Each of these models has   their own trade-offs, their own pros and   cons, and real systems often combine   multiple models to stay flexible and   secure. APIs are like doors into your   system. If you leave them unprotected,   then attackers and anyone can walk right   in and do whatever they want with your   user data and overall the system.

 That's   why in today's video, we'll look at   seven proven techniques which will help   you to protect your APIs from unwanted   attacks. The first one we have in the   list is rate limiting which controls how   many requests a client can make in a   given time. For example, you can set a   limit for user A to make let's say 100   requests per some period of time to your   API.

 And if they cross that limit and   let's say make 101 requests, then you   block the next request and allow some   time to pass before they can send their   next request. If you don't set this to   your API, then attackers can overwhelm   your system. They can send like   thousands of requests per minute and   then overwhelm your API which will take   your system down or it can also brute   force your data.

 And these rate limits   can be set per endpoint. For instance,   let's say you have some /comments   endpoint and here they can send a   request to either create a comment or   fetch comments. You can set that limit   for endpoint level. So these comments   endpoint will be set to some strict   number of requests per minute. You can   also set it per user or IP address.

  Let's say in a we have the IP address of   first user and then B for the second, C   for this one and your attacker has some   IP address which corresponds to D. If   you get the 101 request from the D IP   address, then you will know that this   user overused the API. So you will block   it at the user IP level.

 And there is   also overall rate limiting to protect   from DDOS attacks. Since you can set the   rate limit to work per user or per IP   address, that means that this attacker   alone cannot send that many requests.   You will block it with your rate   limiting in the API. But what they can   do is they can spin up some bots and   each bot will have their own limit,   right? Let's say you've set it to 100   per IP address.

 So each of these boats   has 100 and overall they have more than   you would allow or your system could   handle. That's why you have also overall   rate limitings which can be some bigger   number. So whenever all the traffic   coming into your server reaches or   passes this number then you will   temporarily block all requests until you   find out the root cause.

 And of course   these numbers are just examples. So in   reality it's much more than thousand but   that's just an example. The second one   on the list is course which stands for   cross origin resource sharing. This   controls which domain can call your API   from a browser and without proper course   malicious websites could trick users   browsers into making requests on their   behalf.

 For instance, if your API is   only meant to serve your front-end app   which is at app.youdomain.com   yourdommain.com   then only requests from this source   should be allowed. If anyone else sends   you a request like up another domain.com   then you should block this request and   not allow them to use your API for   authenticating or using any of its data.

  The third one is also a common one which   is SQL and NoSQL injections. Injection   attacks can happen when the user input   is directly included in the database   query. For instance, attacker can modify   it and send some queries to read or   delete your data. Here, for example,   this part bypasses the checks entirely   and then attacker can use this query to   start reading data from your database or   modify anything or they can also delete   all the data, all the user data and any   other tables that you have in this   database. So to fix this, we always use   parameterized queries or OM safeguards.   The next technique to use is firewalls.   Uh firewall acts as a gatekeeper   filtering the malicious traffic from the   other normal traffic. So typically you   have it between your API and the   incoming traffic. For example, if you   use the AWS's web application firewall,

  these can block requests with unknown   attack patterns such as suspicious SQL   keywords or strange HTTP methods, which   means it will block any suspicious   requests from attackers, but it will   allow others to bypass the request and   reach to your API. Some APIs are also   private and should only be accessed from   specific networks.

 That's why we have   also VPNs which stand for virtual   private networks. The APIs that are   within the VPN network can only be   accessed by someone who is also within   that same network. Which means that some   APIs are public facing meaning these   APIs will allow any requests from the   internet from your users. But this for   example can be within the VPN network.

  Which means if a user from web tries to   reach your API then this request will be   blocked because the user is not within   the same network. But on the other hand   if you have another user here which is   within the VPN network they can make a   request to these APIs and in this case   they will bypass the checks and their   request will reach to your APIs.

 This is   useful where you have internal tools.   Let's say you have internal admin   dashboard and the API for this admin   panel will only be reachable by   employees connected to the company VPN.   Next, we have CSRF, which stands for   cross-sight request forgery. This tricks   a logged in user's browser into making   unwanted requests to the API.

 Let's say   you as a user are logged in into your   bank system and your bank system uses   cookies for authentication. If the bank   system is not secure and they only use   session cookies, another malicious site   might use your cookie and submit a   hidden transferring money request   through your cookie.

 So to prevent such   attacks, companies also use CSRF tokens   in combination with session cookie. So   the banking system will check if the   session cookie is present, but it will   also check if the CSRF token matches   with the one that they have. And if it   doesn't then it will block this request   from the other unknown source while it   will allow request from your behalf.

 And   the last one we have is XSS or it's also   called cross-sight scripting. This lets   attackers to inject scripts into web   pages served to other users. For   example, if you have a comment section   and this comment gets submitted to your   API. Next, your API will also store it   in a database.

 You can get normal   requests like nice picture or something   like that and this will get to your API.   Your API will store it in the database.   So everything is fine there. But what if   an attacker places a script in this   comment section and within this script   they can try to do many different   things.

 For example, they can try to   fetch the cookie for another user or   they can try to inject something into   your database. And if you allow this   then it will reach to your server and   the information will be written into the   database. Later when the other users   load this comments section on their   screen, they will get also the injected   comment directly into their web page and   the browser will execute this malicious   JavaScript code into the other users   browser.

 What you just watched were the   first two parts of my system design   mastery course. I also have deep dives   into databases, caching, CDNs, and   production infrastructure on my YouTube   channel. Just search Hikimmon on YouTube   or check out the first link in the   description. I also cover full case   studies where I take real systems like   WhatsApp, Spotify, Tiny URL, and more   and design them from scratch using the   exact components you learned about here.

  And if you also want access to the full   system design mastery course where I go   deeper into all of these pillars, then   you'll find more information on that on   my channel.
