
I built this entire app with cloud code.   Now let's see if it's production ready.   My name is George Brooks and I'm one of   the founders of Krema, a digital product   agency and design and technology   consultancy. We help people do this.   >> I'm Ross Brown. I'm a software developer   or software engineer or whatever the   current title is for that sort of thing.

  been doing it for   20 years or something. I'm I'm old now.   Feel old. You don't look old. Feel   >> great. Feel great and old. Over the last   7 days, I built an app. An actual full   complete ready to produce, ready to sign   people up app. Ross, I believe that I   have something the world needs. And I   built it all by myself without a   developer, without a designer, without a   product manager, and with my best friend   that I call Claude.

 Thought you were   going to say me, but I didn't get any   calls. So, let me introduce you to uh   Combo. Uh Combo is a product that I um   literally thought about 7 days ago. I   was having a conversation with someone   who was saying, "Hey, we fill out these   surveys. We send out these forms to a   bunch of people and we're missing the   kind of truth behind the truth.

 We're   missing the like little nuanced   information that you don't get from   somebody just filling out a form. What   AI is actually pretty good at is   collecting that information and kind of   having a conversation using natural   language to collect that info. So I   went, what if I could build a little app   for that where a person could create a   set of questions, then they could send   those questions to somebody and instead   of filling out a form, it actually had   them be interviewed with a chatbot.

 So   what I was able to accomplish from 8   days ago to today is in the first 3   days, I got the core functionality   working. I could actually create   interviews. I could copy a link, send   that link to somebody. They could go in,   they could actually fill out that   interview either through chat or they   could talk to it and then those   responses get sent to me and then I just   kind of went crazy.

 I started adding   lots of features and functionality after   that. But that's where it started.   Assuming I got that to work, it felt   like I'm I'm ready to like make millions   off of my app. Tell me, is this   something that I could ship or am I am I   ready to go, Ross?   >> Yeah, like I I made two two surveys   here.

 one of them uh I wanted to get I   was trying to extract information from   the cats that were fostering to see if   we would be good uh permanent foster or   permanent parents. So you want to   interview your cats?   >> Yeah. Okay. And then I I did submit the   interview as my cat. Um but it was I   just want to see what kind of questions   they would come up with um for the goal   of like   >> Oh, I really want to know what that   interview looks like.

  >> I had a lot of fun. So I'm going to log   in real quick. I did not do social o. I   just created simple username and   password. Uh this account happens to   have a bunch of interviews, but the   basic flow for it is that you can go in   create a new interview. I started first   with just a title, a description, who's   it for and what's the goal.

 We can say   video test. Um there's quick test here.   It's for Ross and his cats.   And the interview goal is to demo. Now,   this doesn't have a lot of information,   so it wouldn't really know what the   interview is going to be about, but if   you put enough information in there, I   thought, well, that'd be cool if it   actually kind of wrote the questions for   you, and it will actually draft those.

  Um, and then I started adding additional   features. From there, though, once you   finished making um the question set, you   can create that interview and then you   can copy this link and share it with   somebody. Now, that's just the chat. It   would just chat back and forth. So, if I   open up a new tab and pasted that that   interview in here, it's going to collect   a little bit information about the   person.

 And then it trick takes you   straight into a chatbot. Now this is   should be tuned on whatever those   question sets were. But then like I   said, I really wanted to have a voice   conversation. So I went back to Claude   and said, "Hey, can we add voice?" I've   been following 11 Labs for a long time.   And so I chose 11 Labs as the voice   service.

 And so I had to go sign up for   11 Labs, give it the API key, and then   now you can turn on voice. And so if I   were to refresh that interview, I would   see this little note here get added and   then it could connect and you can't hear   it right now because we're muted, but it   would come in here and start to say, "Do   you want to do you want to talk about   this?" That feature functionality came   through me using a third party service.

  Yep.   >> So I just kind of slowly stepped through   adding additional layers to it and ended   up getting with uh this this platform   that allowed me to create an interview,   send an interview, and then get   responses back. And you can actually see   it looks like somebody just took that   because I started it.

 So the blue dot   shows me I'm a I'm the newest   respondent.   >> I went through and I did a couple of   these like one with the voice, one with   tikking. One of them was a uh entry   level prep cook prep cook job interview.   >> Oh, all right.   >> And uh   >> Yeah, I love that cuz you can use this   for anything. It's great.   >> Right.

 I did this one with the video I'm   sorry, the audio um interview style. And   uh I I do feel like the semiscycopantic   nature of of these agents when in   conversation is helpful because it you   know it draws out more conversational   because the personal the person that I   was interviewing as you know only had   experience in like microwaving   spaghettiios and really tried to hammer   that home throughout all of this.

  >> Yes. Um but yeah it would it definitely   take like a knowledgeable person to come   back to this and read it and be like   that's not the person for the job. But   the the overview that uh it generated   too like the summary of the response was   interesting to read through   >> and it did a pretty good job and it   actually mapped the responses to the   questions even though those were not   always linear.

  >> Yeah. Yeah. And that that's that's kind   of like impressive to look through here.   I and I chose like the job interview   thing as kind of like a you know maybe   an ethics test too because   >> Yeah. Good. I wonder if um all of this   summarization it you know kind of   dilutes the actual person behind the   process.

  >> There's a lot that you can't get from   just a job interview obviously but   >> well and the feedback I have gotten is I   we still need the humanto human   conversations   >> and I'm I'm my suggestion and then we   can talk more about the business plan of   this. My suggestion is not to replace   the human conversations but to scale   them to have more of them.

  >> Right. And it seems like you know a good   enough job for for these two examples   that have gone through like yeah do you   want to hire a some somebody who has   only 10 years of exclusively microwaving   >> spaghettias. They need to diversify   their pallet a little bit.   >> Yeah.

 Yeah. But yeah it's like it was it   was impressive to to see all it come   together.   >> So my question to you I worked from the   core out on the application.   >> Yeah. I added feature sets to it. Do I   just have a bunch of spaghetti code?   >> Um, I would say yes. Uh, it's like   there's there's a lot of like high   throughput sort of coding like it's the   tactical tornado as it's referenced in   um programming patterns.

 I forgot the   name of the book, but it's good. But   somebody who has very high output and   productivity but doesn't necessarily   think about being like a good citizen   contributor to the code base. Got it. Um   but I've been thinking about this a lot   and I don't know depending on how you as   the product owner would go about   maintaining this or growing this at all.

  Like if if the entire process is just   going to have AI continue to iterate on   it and maintain it then there's no point   really in trying to make it developer   friendly you know.   >> Oh okay. So let me make sure I   understand that what you're saying is   traditionally speaking when you be   writing code you would be thinking about   another dev will probably look at this   >> and they eat later or even later right   you need to understand what you did why   you did it have it be in a structure   that feels like logical.   >> Uhhuh. uh because yourself or someone   else would need to collaborate on it.   Yeah.   >> But if AI is reading the its own slob   maybe does that matter?   >> There are like lanes that it matters in.   And I think long-term maintenance, you   know, as long as you assume they have   infinite resources to and that these   systems will always be around to ingest   and probably get better. Yep. As they go   on to ingest all this stuff, make sense   of it, and then spit out the next thing   you need. It goes against a lot of like   engineering principles to make things,

  you know, cleaner, more reusable and   stuff, but a lot of those are formulated   around like human humans maintaining   those systems.   >> Yeah.   >> Um,   >> and I'm sure it would help that because   uh these AI are trained on uh models and   and content about maintaining systems   for humans to maintain. Mhm.   >> Uh that it would probably be more   efficient to write and produce code in   that way.

 It's not like entirely   necessary, I don't think. Which is   really weird. Like I I don't like saying   that, but it doesn't really seem like   entirely necessary for you to just like   continue developing this out until it   has like a million features and you've   never looked at the code and it could be   spaghetti code.

 Who cares, you know?   >> And if it works,   >> yeah, it works.   >> If it works, it works. I think that only   that might only matter because I'm this   is kind of a startup, right? This is a   this is a I'm building it for me. I'm   building it for a probably early adopter   group.   >> If this got to scale, there'd be systems   and things that I probably would have to   deal with.

 So, I'm kind of curious that   just to shift it a little bit. Is all   that true? What we just said, which it's   that can it can do whatever it wants   because AI is going to read itself one   day. Does that is that still true in an   enterprise,   right? and we're going into existing   environments that have existing data   structures, existing applications.

 I'm   curious how we start to think through   what I built with quad today and got   this far in 7 days.   >> How does that translate to how   organizations that are thinking about   maybe pivoting towards using AI as a   tool, as a resource, as an employee or   whatever, um how do they think about it?   I won't speak for enterprises without a   lawyer present, but uh I would yeah I   think that's the other side of the coin.

  So like for just like high productivity   and things that would work for for most   cases like what you're doing and   continuing on that path forever um is   probably sufficient. But, you know, when   you get into like larger enterprise   things, I think your your system is only   going to be good as your enterprise   rules   >> and and how strict you are on it.

  Because the other things behind just   like spaghetti code, maintainability,   whatever, if we throw those out the   window, the other things we have are   like security risks.   >> Yep.   >> And potential just like bloat of   delivery, which could also come down to   performance. It's interesting because   the promise of of SASbased software, the   pro promise of cloud-based software was   that software would go to the price of   almost zero.

 And now we're actually   seeing that pivot back because this is   going to be kind of expensive to run if   it scales.   >> Yeah. Not only the third party services   I used, but the the tokens I'm burning   to have it process every piece of   information back and forth. It gets   expensive and no longer is software   cheap.

 it becomes actually this really   it's like a more like a almost like a   capex expense now for enterprises that   they haven't previously had because   they've always driving their cost down   with technology.   >> The SAS thing too is is less about the   actual underlying technology now and   it's more about the the management and   the resourcing around that.

 Superbase   probably uses something under the hood   either a relational database or or NoSQL   or something. I don't know enough about   Superbase specifically to know, but like   you could just use a much cheaper data   storage to just have something that   would scale that up. Um,   >> but I didn't know to do that.

 So, we're   going back to this this business case,   this use case of people that are out   there vibing   >> and thinking, I'm going to build an app,   ship it to the world, or maybe an   enterprise that's saying, I'm going to   get my all my teams to just like switch   over to asking AI to do everything.   Yeah.

 What I'm hearing you say is that   without the guard rails, without the the   oversight, without the directional   expertise of here's what we ought to do,   then you're going to get something, but   maybe not something that's actually   beneficial for the value of the   organization or the goal that you're   trying to hit with it. And I think   that's true for I mean like you as a   product person have strict requirements   around what you want it to do. Yeah.

 And   the knowledge other people have around   how to produce those elements and guard   rails to put around different things and   the security requirements like having   those having somebody come up with those   and then codifying them somehow into   this like could help this whole uh   process scale to a larger more   enterprise thing.

 But you have to have   somebody, you know, with knowledge of   what to do, how to do that, and what the   requirements of that of your business   are.   >> So my take away from this conversation   is one, I can go ahead and ship this to   the world and make millions.   >> Yeah. Yes. Two, um, that the best   results still include a I think we talk   about the product team, the design,   product, and technology oversight   >> and them coming in and saying, "Here are   some best practices in UX.

"   >> Yeah.   >> Let's direct it that way. Here are some   best practices in data and technology   and the the trade-offs of that. Let's   direct it in that way. And here's the   best practices in connecting business to   user to technology feasibility. So if   you are still thinking about the   expertise, the expert in the loop, the   human in the loop, I'm I like the expert   in the loop is probably a better thing   to be saying right now because human in   the loop is like I'm a human in the   loop, but obviously I made some   decisions that probably aren't best for   the world or for me to grow this into   something that will make me millions.   expert in the loop can say, "No, with   those constraints in play, yeah, use the   AI. Go build some really incredible   things. Maybe increasing velocity or or   checking your quality." And there's   there's some things I did using Claude   skills that were really cool for like PR   reviews or for, you know, the planning   features were really nice, but without   that expert in the loop, maybe you   wouldn't get to where you want to be for   the the return on the value that you   want.   >> Some things to consider are again   security. Like when I was looking at the   code

  >> were all my API keys just like   completely visible for   >> No, you did a good job.   >> Yes. All right. I'm good.   >> It's a node. It's a JavaScript   application. You do npm install   immediately there's like a high security   vulnerability uh package that could be   done. And that's something you know as a   developer like when you run that script   cuz you have to to start working on the   project you'll see it and then maybe   address it you know either now or later.

  But I don't know if you know cloud is   taking that that into account when it's   going through those things. Those those   packages could become old and stale and   all sort of stuff. So and also security   of your data. So if you had somebody   creating like a uh a medical examination   or interview or something and they're   entering in data that they wouldn't   necessarily want to get out somewhere   >> using it in a way I didn't think of.

  Right. you have those uh thirdparty   services that are hopefully have some   data data governance laws that they're   like maintaining but you know otherwise   it may come back to to you   >> as um and then lastly one thing I was   thinking about is just like with with   the spaghetti code nature like it's   interesting some things that there's a   UI library radics UI that it's importing   two components two components   >> just two components out of the entire   library   >> out of the entire library and it's also   using tailwind And and Ranx has some   like notes in their documentation that's   like you can use this with Tailwind, but   like you may run into things where   you're trying to reach in to like maybe   anti-attern things to use those two   together in a specific way, but it's   spread out and you're importing these   things and then there's a lot of   duplication.   >> Yeah. Throughout you could get to a   point where you're shipping a really big   application to the browser that could be   otherwise I mean it's mostly text,   right?   >> Yeah. But it could be a lot more lean.   it could be a lot more lean and and more

  performant which uh again will affect   your like bandwidth costs for serving   those files when somebody lands on this.   >> Yeah, that's really good. And honestly,   I think that those are things we could   probably fix with AI if I knew or if we   were focused on saying, "Hey, we need to   write a skill that references the same   design library.

 We need to write, you   know, like there's ways that you could   probably get that to build on itself,   but didn't do that on in seven days."   >> Yes. And lastly, I would say maybe most   importantly, there are no tests in this   code. is zero tests, which is   >> I feel judged, but appropriately. So,   >> I mean, it's I mean, if you're just   making something work, you're not going   to say and test it to make cuz you're   the one testing,   >> right? But, um, because context is   limited and because you're going to have   it kind of worming its way through   everything and and updating stuff   across. Generally, it's, you know, in my   experience, Cloud has been good at kind   of respecting what's there and making   non-breaking API changes when you're   doing features, but you're not going to   necessarily know if one of your 2,00   features that you've sped out over the   weekend is broken when you make 2001   features. Um, it's really good. And that   sort of like deployment process and   checks and balances are really important   to have if you don't want to make your   paying customers upset that you broke   something,   >> right? um when you ship a new feature.

  >> So, lots more considerations to vibe   coding in 2026.   >> Yeah.   >> That being said, we're leaning in. We're   learning.   >> Yeah.   >> And we can see that we can make   something within 7 days, but also keep   the expert in the loop because there's   still a lot that you want to get right.   >> That sounds about right to me.

  >> Thanks for watching. We're Krema, a   digital product agency and design and   technology consultancy. We help people   do this. So, make sure you subscribe and   learn more and follow along.   >> Like and subscribe. What' your cat say   about how good you are as a cat parent?
