
So, a couple weeks ago, my app got   hacked. I made a video about it, shared   some security tips, and I was honestly   surprised by the response. A ton of you   guys reached out and said you wanted to   know more about how to protect your   apps. So, I decided to make a dedicated   video about the most common security   mistakes that I'm seeing right now,   especially if you're building with AI or   you're using something like Superbase or   Firebase.

 A quick disclaimer before we   get into it. This is not a comprehensive   security video that would take like 100   videos. These are just the most common   things that I'm personally seeing,   especially with apps that were quickly   made with AI. So, keep that in mind. If   you're new here, welcome to the video.   My name is Chris and I build   productivity apps.

 I've been an iOS and   React developer for over 10 years and   I've made every single mistake that I'm   about to talk about in this video. So,   I'm not coming at you saying that I'm   some amazing developer and I'm better   than everyone. I'm telling you this   stuff because I've made these mistakes   and I've dealt with the consequences.

 I   mean, even just a few weeks ago, if you   saw my video, I recently got hacked. But   let's jump into it. The number one issue   that I've been seeing so far is   misconfigured RLS or rowle security. If   you do any sort of vibe coding with AI   or you've used Superbase or Firebase,   you have probably heard of RLS.

 And if   you're not technical, you probably heard   it and just completely ignored it.   There's also been a ton of drama with   vibecoded apps getting hacked, data   breaches, all the data leaking. Almost   every single headline that you've seen   where this has happened is probably   because of a misconfigured RLS.

 So, let   me quickly explain what RLS is in the   simplest way possible. So, the way that   apps are supposed to work is you have   your front end, which could be your   application. This is what your users   see. And then you have a backend. And   then [music] you have a database which   is where all of the user data is being   stored.

 The way that apps have been   built in the past, your front end should   never talk directly to the database. It   has to go through the back end to do   that. This was the correct and most   secure way to build an app. And then   came Firebase and Superbase and their   whole pitch was you don't need a backend   to develop an app.

 They gave you these   client libraries that you install on   your app directly on the front end and   your app can talk directly to the   database securely. This was a very   controversial thing because it goes   against this whole front-end backend   database architecture that most apps had   at the time. Now, obviously, this wasn't   great from a security standpoint.

 People   were like, "This is really insecure. How   can your app talk directly to the   database?" So, their solution was to add   something called role- or in the case of   Firebase, it's called Firebase Security   Rules. They're basically the same thing.   What RLS does is it acts as a filter.   So, even though your app is talking   directly to the database, RLS limits   what it can access.

 So you can set rules   like a user can only access their   specific data from the database. That is   an RLS configuration. Without RLS,   someone could hit your database and just   download the entire thing. But when RLS   is configured correctly, they should   only be able to access their own data.   And technically, this does work.

 It is a   good solution. But there is a huge   problem and it's if you misconfigure   this, it can be very devastating.   Firebase actually had a huge issue with   this. Previously, when you spun up a   Firebase instance, their security rules   or their RLS was completely off. So   everything was just open to view and   download by default.

 They did this so   developers could move faster without   getting bogged down by having to write   these security rules. And they tried   adding a warning on their site that   says, "Hey, before you go into   production, make sure to configure these   security rules correctly." But that   wasn't enough. So many apps got hacked   that they actually had to change their   policy where it's off by default, but   then they're going to automatically turn   it off after a certain number of days   and they'll automatically lock your   database. That's how bad it got. And now   with things like vibe coding, the   problem has gotten a lot worse because a   lot of people don't know how this stuff   works. And honestly, I don't even blame   them because I have misconfigured RLS   and Firebase security rules so many   times whenever I was doing it by hand.   In my case, for my calorie tracking,   Amy, I'm using Superbase and I was   confident I configured RLS correctly. I   even had Claude and Cursor double check   it. But I made a big mistake. I had RLS   configured correctly where users can   read and write only their own data. But   I made the mistake of storing the   subscription status and the rate limits   on the same table, which meant that they   were able to actually modify their   subscription status to give themselves   premium. And even worse, they were able

  to modify the rate limits and then they   could just hit my AI endpoint unlimited   and just rack up a $10,000 bill. Now,   before you say, why didn't you ask   Claude or Cursor to audit your RLS?   Trust me, I did. It did not catch these   issues either. These tools are great at   catching most RLS misconfigurations, but   then when it gets to something a little   more complicated, like thinking through   how can RLS be manipulated so that they   can abuse costs and cause financial   damage, it sometimes does miss this   stuff, especially when the RLS is   technically correct. But the problem is   with the underlying data that you're   storing. So, I actually decided to audit   a couple people's apps in preparation   for this video to figure out how   prevalent is this problem, especially if   you're using something like Superbase.   Some of the apps were vibe coded by   nontechnical people, but a lot of them   were actually vibecoded by people like   myself who do have technical experience,   and over half of them had the exact same   problem. I was able to manipulate the   apps to give myself premium access and   basically just configure any of the   fields that I wanted. There was one   instance I was able to download a user's   entire table so I can see all the data   on Superbase. I saw information I was

  absolutely not supposed to see. And this   is a very common problem. Again, you   probably have seen some news articles   about vibecoded apps that were leaked.   That is usually due to a misconfigured   RLS configuration. So, obviously, my   number one tip here is to doublech   checkck your RLS configurations.

 And not   just in a general way like asking cloud   code, hey, check my RLS configuration. I   mean in a very specific way, like try to   think through specific scenarios of   where RLS will fail. So, you need to   prompt it with very specific things like   [music] can users bypass their   subscription status? Can they modify   their rate limits? Is there a scenario   where a user can read another user's   data? Can they abuse anything?   You have to be a little bit more   creative and do some critical thinking   if you want to catch these things. To   help you guys out, I actually created a   markdown file, completely free. I'll   just leave it in the link below if you   want to go check it out. It has a bunch   of common scenarios that I've seen. Feel   free to just feed this in to Claude Code   and Cursor and ask it to go audit your   codebase. If it does catch something,   please let me know in the comments   below. And specifically, the most common   vulnerability pattern I'm seeing with   RLS is storing sensitive data like   subscription status or rate limits on   the user table itself. I don't know why,   but cloud code and cursor just do not   have a problem with you doing this. The   second most common pattern I'm seeing   with RLS is misconfiguration where users

  can see other people's data. Probably   very surprising to hear for most people.   Like that just seems so basic, but it   does happen a lot. Again, check out the   news articles if you want to see cases   of this happening. And one more very   important thing. If you're using cloud   code and cursor, please use the   superbase or firebase mcps.

 Even if   you're using AWS and Azure, use the CLI   and give it to cloud code and cursor so   it can audit the configurations   directly. It's so much better than   trying to take screenshots or SQL dumps   and pasting them directly. Just give it   access directly to the configurations.   By the way, you probably saw me going   back and forth with cloud code when I   was asking it about RLS and security.

  And you probably noticed I was dictating   all of that. I get asked all the time   what I'm using for dictation, and the   answer is Whisper Flow. And a huge shout   out to them for actually sponsoring this   video. Whisperflow is smart voice to   text that works in any app. [music] And   the reason it's perfect for developers   is it understands developer terminology.

  So when I say something like [music] use   state superbase RLS policy, web hook   handler,   it gets it right every single time. And   they also have integrations with cursor   and windsurf where it can actually   understand the codebase and tag files   and variables without you typing   anything.

 So I can say something like,   [music] can you please analyze   superbase.ts? ts   and it correctly tags the file. And it's   not just for coding. They have an iOS   and Android app that I use all the time.   Like when I respond to YouTube comments,   this is how I do it. It helps me be very   thorough with my responses. And   obviously, I use it in things like   iMessage and Slack, too.

 I'll leave a   link in the description if you want to   check it out. They also gave me a code   for 1 month free, and that's on top of   the existing 14-day trial you get with   Whislow Pro. They did not have to give   me the code. I'm the one that asked for   that. So, a huge thank you to them for   providing that.

 [music] But going back   to the mistakes, mistake number two is   adding no rate limits. This is a huge   one, especially if you have an app that   has any sort of AI features. You might   be thinking to yourself, well, I put   limits on my front end, so they can only   generate five generations a day. But the   problem is, if someone finds your   endpoint, they can bypass any limits you   put on the front end because they're   going directly to the back end.

 And   finding those backend endpoints is not   hard at all. Anybody can see this in the   network tab. And yes, this does apply to   mobile apps. Even though there's no   network tab, it is very easy to get   those requests for a native app. So you   need rate limits on the back end because   front-end rate limits are not going to   cut it. It's super easy to implement.

  You can ask cloud codecursor to do it   for you. The way that I personally do it   is I have per user rate limits. That way   I can raise them for a specific user if   there is a legitimate use case. I store   the number of generations a user has   made on a table and I store what the   rate limits are for that user also on   the table.

 And then every time someone   calls the back end, I just check to see   if they're within this limits before I   let the requests [music] go through. But   let's remember mistake number one, the   RLS. If you do choose to go this route,   make sure not to put the limits on the   same table as the user data that they're   allowed to edit.

 That's the mistake that   I made with my calorie tracking app. So   choose very carefully and audit where   you're going to store them. Another   approach which you can use in   combination with this per user rate   limits is to add IPbased rate limiting.   So, this is where you set it up where a   single IP address can only hit your   backend endpoints and specifically the   AI endpoints a certain number of times   per hour, per minute, per week if you   wanted to. It's super easy to set up.

  Just ask Claude Code and Cursor to do it   for you because even if someone spins up   a million accounts and finds a way to   bypass your userbased rate limiting, the   IPbased rate limiter should stop them.   Technically, they can rotate their IP   address with proxies, but at that point,   it is so costly for someone to do this,   and it's usually just not worth it that   I honestly would not worry about it.

  Even if you don't have AI features, it's   still good practice to add these limits   because you don't want someone to   unnecessarily spam your endpoint, even   unintentionally. And if you're using   something like Firebase and Superbase,   you should put these limits in place   because these are still technically   usagebased services.

 So, you're getting   charged based on the number of reads and   writes to the database or how much   bandwidth you're consuming with   Superbase. So, you want to add these   limits because someone could in theory   hit up these services and then just rack   up a huge bill that way. And there are a   lot of cases of this happening where   people woke up to a $50,000 bill.

 So,   please add these type of limits even if   you have no AI features. Mistake number   three is calling AI endpoints or other   sensitive API calls directly from the   front end. I have seen way too many   people do this. And to be honest, a   couple years ago when I was just   starting out, I was also making the same   mistake.

 I was calling things like   Stripe directly from the front end,   which I don't even think they allow you   to do that anymore. And yes, it's not   just AI endpoints. It could be something   sensitive like Stripe calling that   directly from the front end, which is   bad because that means someone can take   that endpoint, manipulate prices or   subscription tiers before it hits your   server.

 I've also seen people calling   things like email services like Send   Grid and Postmark directly from the   front end, which is bad because someone   can take those endpoints and those keys   and then start sending emails as you.   The other thing I've seen is people call   cloud storage providers like AWS S3   directly from the front end with   hard-coded credentials.

 And in some   cases, this allows people to download   and upload whatever they want to your S3   bucket. And obviously, the big really   bad thing I'm seeing is people calling   AI providers directly from the front   end. Let's say you have a photo   generation service, for example, calling   Vertex AI with Nano Banana directly from   your front end.

 That is such a bad idea   to do that because someone can then   intercept your key and then use it for   whatever they want and rack up a huge   bill that you have to pay for. The   solution to this is very simple. All you   need to do is make sure that these calls   are being done from your backend, not   your front end.

 And if you don't have a   backend setup, this is where Superbase   Functions and Firebase Functions do come   in. And by the way, this is the solution   that Firebase and Superbase came up with   to deal with this problem with their   whole you don't need a backend type   offering. There's also a huge   misconception, especially with mobile   development, that if you put your API   keys in an environment variable, it is   just secure automatically.

 That is not   the case. Most environment variables on   all front ends are exposed. Environment   variables are only safe on a backend,   which is why you have to call these   sensitive endpoints only from your   backend. So, let me just clear that   misconception right here. If your   environment variable is in the front end   or again, if it's in the mobile app, it   can be found.

 Do not store anything   truly sensitive there. Another issue I'm   seeing that's semi-related to this is   not adding budget caps. Whatever   provider you're using, make sure to add   a budget cap so that if you hit that   budget cap, then the services just shut   off completely. It is so much better for   your app to go down for a little bit   than for you to wake up with a $10,000   bill.

 This is kind of embarrassing, but   I made a huge mistake a couple years ago   where one of my environment variables   got leaked, which was an AWS key that   just had too many permissions attached   to that key. Absolutely no budget cap   either. But I woke up to a $30,000 bill   where someone took the key and then used   something called AWS SageMaker to do   machine learning training on my key.

 I   got lucky and the bill was waved to   about $2,000. So still $2,000, but I   mean way better than $30,000. But that   was an eye opening experience. I think   from that day forward, that's when I   started taking budget caps, hiding   environment variables, all this stuff   way more seriously. And unfortunately,   some services don't have budget caps.

 So   at the bare minimum, make sure to have   alerts set up where you get notified if   you're approaching a budget cap. There   are some workarounds on services like   Firebase, for example, where you can   actually set something up to call the   Google billing API and just shut off   spend automatically for you. I   absolutely hate how Firebase and some   services don't do that.

 It's just so   malicious in my opinion that they don't   have that. But the world's not fair and   you sometimes just have to set that up   yourself. Okay, so let's talk about   something that's probably going to make   some developers a little bit mad. A   question I keep getting is vibe coding   and LLM coding inherently insecure.

 My   honest opinion on this is no. I don't   think that they're inherently insecure.   This is probably controversial, but I   would actually argue to say that the   apps where I used AI for coding for vibe   coding are more secure than the ones   that I did a couple years ago by hand.   And I can actually say this with   confidence and prove it because I took   cloud coding cursor threw it at some of   my old code bases to see can it find any   vulnerabilities and there were so many   vulnerabilities that it caught and I   believe the reason is because LLMs can   see things that a lot of humans can't or   just miss. It can think through edge   cases. I would not have necessarily   thought of. And more importantly, it   doesn't get fatigued. When I was coding   my hand, security was like the last   thing I was thinking about. I was so   tired just building features that I just   didn't have enough time to think about   it properly. So by the time I was done   building features, I'd always be   halfassing the security and there would   always be things just slipping through   the cracks. When you're using AF for   coding, not only does the LLM not get   fatigued, but I am less fatigued as a   developer where I have a lot more of a   clear head to be able to think through

  these edge cases, have a good   conversation with it, and try to uncover   some of these issues. Let me be more   specific here. When I say vibe coding   and LLM based coding, I'm not   necessarily talking about LLM coding   where you're just shipping things and   not looking and just don't care about   any of this stuff.

 That will always have   inherent security issues, but it's the   same thing as just coding by hand and   just not really caring. that will also   have a lot of security issues. But the   vibe coding and the LLM based coding   that I'm talking about that is more   secure than doing it by hand is where   you know what's going on.

 You are in   control. You can still move super   quickly, but you at least care and are   very deliberate about security. Vibe   coding like that and using LLM that is   so much more secure than coding by hand.   My favorite conversations to have with   Claude are the ones where we're   deliberately talking about security.   We're having a back and forth thing   where I'm saying, "Well, what about this   scenario? What about if someone tries to   do a prompt injection?" I love having   conversations like that.

 It gives me   peace of mind when I ship something that   it is more secure, way more secure if I   didn't have that conversation. I had to   think through this stuff just by myself.   So, if you're watching this and you're   thinking, "Oh my god, I got to go check   my app right now." Grab the markdown   file that I linked in the description,   paste it into Cloud Code Cursor, and let   it audit your codebase.

 And then also be   sure to install the Superbase or   Firebase MCP if you're using any of   those services. Try to break your own   app. Think like someone who wants to   abuse your system. That alone will catch   the majority of issues. By the way, I   actually built an internal tool that I   started using to audit my own apps.

 It's   basically an agent that thinks like a   pentester and tries to hack into your   app. So, it doesn't even need access to   the codebase or anything. I've been   debating whether or not to release it   publicly. So, there's a wait list and if   enough people are interested, I'll   probably go ahead and release that.

  Again, this is not comprehensive. This   is barely scratching the surface. This   was just the common stuff that I've been   seeing recently that I wanted to call   out, especially with people who are vibe   coding or building really quickly with   AI. But if you guys have any security   tips or there's something that I missed   that you really think I should cover in   a part two of the video, please leave a   comment down below.

 If you enjoy this   content, check out my Instagram and Tik   Tok. I post almost every other day about   building productivity apps. And   obviously, if you like this content,   don't forget to subscribe. But thank you   guys so much for watching and I will see   you guys in the next video. [music]
