
Hey, this is Andrew Brown, your favorite   tech instructor, bringing you another   certification course. And this time,   it's the Exam Pro Codeex Essentials   Certification. How are we going to pass   it? We're going to do the thing that we   always do. We're going to do lectures,   hands-on labs, and our own account.

 And   as always, I'm going to provide you a   free practice exam uh so that you can go   ace that exam. Get it, put on your   resume, LinkedIn, go get that AI coding   job you've been looking for. Um, and if   you love this kind of materials, the   best way to support it is to purchase   the additional paid materials over at   exampro.co.

  You will see the address all over this   course. You get additional things like   practice exams, cheat sheets, uh,   support, and more. Uh, and the key thing   is that we continue to update these   courses. So even when they're released   for free, we reserve some of the content   and we put it only on the Exampro   platform and then we continually update   it.

 Okay? So uh you know really support   that because it's becoming harder to   make these courses and I want to keep   making free courses. Uh so you got to   help me out here. Okay. Um if you do not   know me, I've taught so many courses. So   we've done claude, we've done adabus,   azure, gcp, kubernetes, terraform,   nvidia, uh, and more like 50 courses.

 So   you are in really really good hands. Uh,   and I hope you enjoy this codeex course.   Let's jump into it.   Hey, it's Andrew Brown and we are at the   start of our journey asking the most   important question first, which is what   is the codeex? essentials. So, the Exam   Pro codec essentials is a certification   course that walks you through all the   features of codecs, has a strong focus   on practical, hands-on knowledge, and we   do not shy away from what doesn't work.

  So, we're going to have a clear picture   of how to utilize this tool. The exam   code for this certification is EXP   codeex01.   So, if this code changes, that means   that there's been a new certification.   And so just be aware of that code in   case it has changed. So consider the XP   codeex if you want to explore all the   features of codec in the shortest   possible amount of time so you can fully   realize the product.

 You need practical   knowledge over sales knowledge or you're   preparing for the claude code boot camp.   You might say why did you put cla boot   camp? Well, that's because originally I   made a Claude Code Essentials course.   Um, and then there was um demand to make   the Codeex course and so currently I   have pending a boot camp, a   project-based boot camp.

 Um, and so   we're still just calling it the Cloud   Code Boot Camp. And we're probably going   to let you use whichever um uh tool you   want and I just haven't changed the   name. So you can think of it as codeex   boot camp, cloud code boot camp. I don't   have a name for it, but we'll continue   on to the road map to see how all this   stuff fits in.

 So over here we have   codeex and the codeex course here is um   over here, sorry, it is shorter than the   cloud code course and the reason why is   just there's less going on in codeex.   Okay. Um and so you know I couldn't make   it a 12-h hour course. It's basically a   four and a half to five hour course   content.

 Um and there's a lot of   similarities here. So, if you've already   done the cloud uh cloud code course,   you're going to find Codeex uh very very   easy and straightforward to do. Um and   so it'll be a really fast and good ramp   up um to just add more tooling uh to   your belt. If you have yet to do so, you   might want to also do the Genai   essentials.

 This will give you   foundational knowledge across the board,   not just in um AI tooling, but in AI in   general. U the cloud certified architect   course, uh we have that as well. And so   this thing I know again it's for claude   but the important part is more so the   orchestration and prompting uh in that   particular course and that can be   applied to any of these tools.

 It can be   applied to cloud codeex gemini cli and   so um you know not all the content in   there is useful if you've done the cloud   code essentials but definitely domains   one two and possibly five are extremely   extremely valuable that could be applied   everywhere else. Maybe at some point we   will generalize that content out of   there so that it's not cloudsp specific.

  Um but it it's still good content   nonetheless. Uh we have the claude code   from zero which probably will have a   codeex from zero, a cloud code from   zero, a Gemini CLI from zero, but we got   to name it that way because most people   entering into um these tools come   through a very specific one. But this   will be for people with zero tech   background.

 So if you need all the steps   explained, it's going to be here and   probably will have a subdomain that will   be like from zero. And so that thing is   definitely going to get developed.   There's huge interest in this. So if   you're watching this and you're going,   Andrew, I can't handle what you're doing   in the cloud code essentials or the   Codex Essentials. I'm not a developer.

  Well, do not worry because we will take   care of you in the uh from zero courses.   Uh but just understand that from zero   courses are charged at a higher rate   because they require a um a certain   level of production and so that's just   what they are. So if you are from zero   and you're not from a developer   background or a tech background um then   you know just understand that's what   it's going to be. Okay.

 But the idea   here is that you know once we have our   fundamentals content we can roll it in   into a projectbased boot camp so we can   apply that knowledge so that we know   what it will be. Again, you know, we   have this is the claude code camp, but   we will probably generalize it for all   three providers as we're finding that   people are working across those three   and we need to service those three.

 And   I don't have the Gemini CLI badge in   here yet, but it'll obviously be in this   road map when we update it for the   Gemini Gemini CLI. Um, and you know,   there is interest in doing a   professionals uh enterprise architect   for enterprises. Right now enterprises   are interested in these toolings but um   unless you're in the states there are   some restrictions in terms of uh usage.

  So as um governance and security   improves there's strong consideration   that I might produce an enterprise   architect course. This is something that   I would come in and do at organizations.   So if you're a large organization and   you want to know how to apply these   tools at the org level or uh at your   government level then you got to reach   out separately for that.

 That's not for   regular consumers. Okay. Um but I put it   here on the road map just in case you're   interested. There is um interested in   like an AI security certification. I   don't have that yet. I will consider it.   Um but this is the road map here. And   really you're going to get most of the   value is going to be doing uh these four   here.

 And again this one here is for   ultra ultra beginners. Okay. So how long   should you study to pass? This is a   short course but if you're a beginner   look at 12 hours, look at 20 hours. Um,   uh, I think that you should start with   clawed code first to be honest because   it is just more robust, has more   features, um, and you're just going to   get a better learning experience.

 But if   you want to start with codecs, you   absolutely can. Um, there's no harm in   that. But here, if you don't have   knowledge of codecs or programming,   you're looking at 12 hours, even more.   Um, if you're experienced, you're going   to be done this in four hours. It's not   a long course. It doesn't take too long.

  Uh, four to six hours. Uh, I mean, you   should replicate it in your own   environments and and do your best. And   so, you know, we're looking at I put 10   hours. 10 I don't I don't think it's 10   hours. I would say like six hours here.   I just forgot to update that. So, six   hours would probably be on average study   time here.

 50% lecture labs, 50%   practice exams, 1 hour a day for seven   days if you need to go for seven days   here. seven or one to two hours, you   know, depends on depends on how long it   will take you, but generally one hour   for seven days should get you there. Um,   how are we going to pass? Well, there's   lecture video content.

 Do those hands-on   labs. I know they're going to be hard to   follow, but do your best. Um, and we   have online paid practice exams, so you   can go simulate it. And we always give   you a free practice exam so that uh you   know you can give that a try there. We   are the test taker for this exam. So if   you want it, you need to pay and sign up   to do the final exam.

 Here it's showing   65 questions, but technically there's   less questions than that. I just have a   generic image in here since I don't feel   like creating a screenshot every time   here. But when you go on the Exam Pro   platform, there will be um a spot to do   the final exam and you only have a few   attempts, one attempt.

 Um and it's not   intended to be hard. It's just there to   validate your information. So it   shouldn't be too difficult. So where can   you do this? From the convenience of   your own home on the exam pro platform.   Uh and so you need to complete a   percentage of the course in platform. Um   if you if we do release this on free   coamp and you're watching this on free   coamp, some people will move over to the   platform and then they'll pay for it.

  And so I just want you to know that uh   we'll probably set the bar at like   55%age of course completion and then you   need to pass the exam. Some people come   over and uh you know they've already   watched some of it on free co camp and   so we've tried to relax that so it's a   bit easier for people to go and do their   final exam.

 Uh there's fewer domains   here as there's just fewer things going   on here but we have core concepts and   foundations codec services and features   and advanced capabilities. Each domain   is weighted um uh differently and so   it'll determine how many questions you   get. Uh the passing grade is 700 out of   a thousand points.

 So you need around   70% to pass. It's using scaled scoring.   That means if you get exactly 70, you   could still fail. Aim to go a bit   higher. Okay, there are 50 questions.   You can afford to get 15 questions   wrong. There are no penalties. The   format questions are multiple choice. Uh   and that's it. Okay.

 The duration of the   exam is 1 hour. You get 1.2 minutes per   question. The exam time is 60 minutes.   The C time is 90 minutes. Um and the C   time refers to the amount uh that you   should allocate for the exam. It   includes time to review instructions,   show online proctored your workspace,   read and accept the NDA and then you can   go ahead complete the exam and provide   feedback at the end.

 Uh this uh cert is   valid for 24 months for two years before   reertification. Um if you are bought   into this course on the exam platform,   I'm updating it as features come out. Uh   so if you want to continuously be   learning and keeping your skills up to   date with codeex be on that platform. Um   so it's up to you.

 I want to make it   clear that getting certifications cloud   AI certifications expect you to have   technical skills and a bunch of other   stuff. If you do not have these skills   AI is not going to help you out. You   still need to learn them. Free co is a   great resource. and exam pro we have a   subscription supporter package where we   have additional materials uh to lay down   that foundational content that's going   to really help you obviously the from   zero course will give you a lot of that   foundational knowledge if you are   missing it and fill in those gaps uh but   certification serve as a such a way uh   to set a goalpost to get you to the end   okay you still got to do uh a bit of   everything all right so there we go and   we are ready to jump into it.   Hey everyone, it's Andrew. I just wanted   to tell you that the repository um that   you're going to see throughout this   course and and all the code that I'm   using that I pushed uh to the uh to

  GitHub is here at Exam Pro codeex   examples. I generally follow this   pattern for my courses. I'll have you   know cloud code examples, adabus   examples, Azure examples, whatever. And   so if you're ever looking for that   stuff, that is where it is. Um, but   hopefully you can utilize this stuff.   For the most part, I would hope that   you're doing everything from scratch   just as I am.

 Um, but you know, if you   want to try to get similar results and   you want to reference my code, it is   over here. You can absolutely use it.   Um, but there you go. Okay.   What is codeex? Well, it is an agentic   coding tool or you could also say a   coding harness. Um, it can read your   codebase, edit files, run commands,   integrates with your development tools.

  You can find it over at   chatgpt.com/codex.   It's available in many different   surfaces uh such as your terminal, IDE,   desktop, app, browser, and more. But the   one that you are going to see the most   is uh it looking like this, which is in   the CLI. And it use case is generally   for coding operations.

 It's not limited   to that, but the idea here is that it   can automate your workflow, build   features, and fix bugs in your codebase,   create commits, uh, deal with pull   requests, connect to MT NCP tools,   customize instructions, skills, and   hooks. Skills is interesting because   they adopt the agent skill framework.   So, if you have skills over in Cloud   Code, you can bring them over to Codeex.

  I'm not sure if Gemini CLI has them, but   if they do, that'd be really, really   nice. uh you can uh build custom agents.   I have uh run agent teams but right now   at this time this is not possible. I   just kind of predict that maybe they   will try to offer this um as cloud code   has it or maybe there's a um third-party   solution that we can utilize.

 So if if   we can I'm going to try to do that in   this course. If we can't then you know   that I wasn't able to do and that's why   it's not in here. Uh we can pipe things   to codeex. You can uh create scripts,   automate things with our CLI and it can   work from anywhere as it's saying that's   available in many different surfaces.

  So, but what is Codex? Codex is a CLI   program and so by nature it runs in your   terminal. Uh Codex is specialized to   write code, but it can also write docs,   run builds, search files, research   topics and more. Um and Codex uses an   agentic loop which is very very   important.

 It has multiple models and it   has tool calls. Um, and so now that we   know that, the thing that we really   wanted to take a look at here is the   agentic loop as every provider has their   own agentic loop and they're different   and it's nice to know how it's working.   Okay.   Okay. So, let's take a look at the   agentic loop for codeex.

 Well, the key   difference between something like cloud   code and uh codeex is that we just don't   know with codeex because they do not   tell you how the internal mechanism   works. So with uh cloud code they define   very three specific steps and codeex   could be using those specific steps but   we just don't know but what we do know   is that it takes in a prompt which which   will invoke uh the um agentic loop and   in that mystery box which is model   inference it will have some level of   reasoning um and then it's going to do   uh calls out to tools. Okay. And then   it's going to return that back to the   model. It's going to keep looping until   it gets to an end result and at any   given time you can interrupt it. So that   is their agentic loop. I wish I knew   more. There are there are articles   online that um Codex has in great detail   and I've read them from OpenAI. Uh and   it didn't tell me a whole lot. Okay. So

  we just don't know. Um and you know I   would say claude code will or claude   will tell us things and codeex or chatb2   will tell us things but it's   hallucinating a lot and guessing which   means to me that we just don't really   know. Okay.   Okay. So for codecs there are different   models we can use specifically open AAI   models and uh and they have their own   family of models called GPT.

 Um, and   based on what models you use, you're   going to get different speed, cost, and   intelligence. Uh, if we were to uh open   up codecs either in the desktop app or   the CLI, we can get a list of possible   models. At first, it looks like there's   more than what Cloud Code has, but   basically it's very similar.

 They have a   uh like a in the middle, your goal   Goldilocks model in the middle, right,   which is just the default one or doesn't   have a particular name. Um then there's   mini which is just like haiku I suppose   and then there is max which would   probably be like opus. Um but notice   that we have very specific codeex ones.

  So these ones are going to be   specialized for working with codecs and   so obviously um coding but uh we will   have to figure it out as to like why   would they give us access to you know   this one and these ones? Why wouldn't we   just be using the codeex one? So that's   something we should try to answer.

 Um   and they always have these charts. While   they used to always have these charts,   uh both uh Claude and OpenAI seem to not   be making them anymore, but what they   would do is give you a comparison of   where they would sit. So, you would see,   you know, GPT4   uh over here, and then it's mini version   over here, and then Nano down below.

  Notice we don't have Nano over here.   Notice there is no 4 in our list   anymore. And this obviously is an old   chart because they're not making them   anymore, but I still wanted to show it   just so you get an idea of where things   could sit. Um, OpenIA does have model   cards uh with good amount of detail of   cost, usage, reasoning, stuff like that.

  So, that's really cool and that's   something we're going to take a look at.   Okay,   so here we are on the OpenAI developers   website. I just typed in OpenAI   developers models um to find it here in   Google and you can see we have a bunch   of models. You have to be a bit careful   because there could be models here that   are not accessible in codec.

 So for   instance, we see GPT54 nano. I'm not   sure if that's actually available to us,   but if it is, we can come back here and   take a look. There's also models that   are not specific to codecs. So we have   image generation, transcription, other   things. So we have to know what is it   that we're looking for. So if it's 5.

4,   which is what is currently out, this   video might be dated and so there might   be newer models. But here you can see   highest reasoning medium speed um input   $2.5 to $15 over what time is very needs   to be very clear because uh that sounds   really expensive but that's probably not   the real cost right like it says this   here but like at what volume so this   says per 1 million right so that's a lot   of tokens so that's actually you know   pretty good um there's also batch API   pricing so that means that you do not   need a result instantly and so you can   wait and so that would be cheaper but   notice down below here compare. So 5.4   is more expensive than 5.2. Uh and then   mini is uh way way way cheaper. And here   showing uh its availability, right? Um   and then we have rate limits down below.   Let's go back a step here. I'm curious   if we can see the codeex models in here.   So we'll go view all.   Okay. And what I'm looking for is

  codecs. Can we see codeex coding models?   Here we go. So we have 535. We'll go   over to here. Okay. So, we have Codex is   optimized for gentic tasks in CEX or   similar environments.   Uh supports low, medium, high X high   reasoning efforts. So, when it's talking   about efforts and I'll have to make a   separate slide on this, but effort   determines how large the context window   is, right? So, um that's another thing   that we will probably want to adjust.

 Um   but that is separate from the actual   underlying model intelligence, right?   Okay. You can see its cost in comparison   here. Pretty good uh comparison to the   GPT54. Like this one's I think it's   cheaper. Um but anyway,   you know, you can see that information   here. Let's go over to   the max.

 So here, what I'm looking for   here is I want to know is it just super   super intelligent or is it just a larger   context window? So I'll open this tab   here.   We'll go over this one here. And so what   I'm looking for here   is maybe its context window size. So   over here it says context window size   400,000. Over here this one's 400,000.

  So the max is not a larger context   window. And so it must be more   intelligent   um like opus I suppose. But here says   for longunning tasks optimized for   longunning tasks. Um and so would use   claude. They say like opus has more   intelligence. This is not saying it has   more intelligence.

 This is saying that   it can it's better for longr running   tasks. We have one two three four   reasoning here. Four reasoning. So this   has the same thing. So we cannot just   apply our knowledge from claude over to   this. Um and that's why we have to check   these things because we never really   know for certain.

 Also notice that there   is a max output tokens and then here we   have the context window. And so um uh   that's really really interesting. So, I   wonder how that works if you have a lot   of stuff coming in and going out.   Um, but when you use claw, they just   they don't show you both. They just show   you one like what the context window is.

  Um, so it seems like it's larger here   because this is 400,000 and uh claude   models at this time are at least 200,000   and that would be input output. But here   they're saying like okay, the context is   400,000 but we're limiting the max   output. Um, so it's not necessarily   larger than claude in that sense.

 The   output is probably the same, right? 100   100,000. Um, so that's kind of   interesting.   Is there anything else here that we   should take a look at? I don't think so.   But the one thing I wanted to see was   there like a nano. There is no nano.   Okay. But yeah, those are the models.   And when we want to know more about   them, we can come back and take a look   here. Okay.

  Okay. Okay, so now that we know what   Codex is, how do we get it installed?   Well, it's pretty simple. It's a single   line install though you do need to have   Noode.js installed on your system. Um,   recommended to use WSL 2, a Mac or   Linux. Um, Windows side, could you do   it? Maybe.

 I don't think I would try to   install it on the Windows side of   Windows. I would install in WSL because   otherwise you're going to probably run   into other problems as coding   environments are set up for Linux. Um so   we will go ahead and do that. What's   interesting is that Claude used to have   this approach as a global node package   but they moved away to a um isolate   binary which made it so you didn't need   Node.

js but Codeex still is relying on   Node.js to deliver their CLI program. Um   to launch it very straightforward once   we have it installed we type in Codex   and it launches. Okay we log in with the   login command. Um, so you would type in   codeex and then type for/login. You   could probably also do like codeex login   but I like to launch it from there.

 We   have three options. Looks just like um   claude. Okay. Uh there is with the   subscription which is the easiest way.   Uh we have device code which is with a   one-time code. I don't think we're going   to show that but you know it's nice that   you can do that. And then we have API   key.

 So that can from come from a   firstparty provider or a third party.   The only third party is Azure as OpenAI   has a good relationship partnership with   um Microsoft and so that's how we'll log   in. Uh if we want to check if we are   logged in or the status of our logged in   we type in for/status. This is different   from   um this is different from uh cloud code   is cloud code status they have off   status which just literally shows you   the status of login but this status uh   shows you more than just if you're   logged in it shows your usage uh which   account what mode you're in uh the   directory of the project that is being   loaded right now uh what is the current   model so we're getting more information   but for our session we have the session   thing so it's showing us how we are   logged in um and then over here if we   were utilizing um the API key it would   show here API config configured to run   with codeex right and then over here

  it's showing the account that you're   utilizing so here we can tell it's a   subscription so this one's a   subscription okay and then this one here   is with an API key to log out you type   for/log pretty straightforward and it   will show you that you are logged out um   but there you go Okay.   Hey folks, this is Andrew and in this   video we are going to look at installing   codec.

 So I'm going to go over and type   in codeex chatgpt into Google. I'm just   doing this offscreen and we will drag   this on over here. Okay. And I already   have a um chatbt subscription. So, you   know, if you want to proceed forward   here, you need a subscription and a   developer API account. Okay, we'll   generally show you where they are as we   work through this.

 But I've typed in   Codex Chatbt and what I'm looking for   here uh is that option. So, here we have   chatbtdex. That's probably the site   we're looking for. Okay. And here we   want to get started with it. So, we can   download the ID. We're going to do that   later. I'm focused on the CLI as um this   course is optimized for developers.

 I'm   a developer. I hope you are a developer   too. If you're not, you will   learn along with us, which is fine. Uh,   and so I already have Node installed,   but I'll go ahead and hit enter. If you   do not have Node, right, how to install   NodeJS,   WSL, okay, to look it up. There's   instructions.

 If you don't have WSL,   look up how to install WSL. I'm not   covering them in this course as that   would require a lot of work. I probably   have videos somewhere recorded for this   stuff. um search my back uh back back   catalog and try to find it. Okay.   Anyway, so we ran that line and now we   should have codeex installed.

 I'm going   to type in codeex.   Okay, it's going to launch up now. I   already have this installed, so it might   be a little bit different, but right   away it's trying to say you are in this   directory. Do you want to trust this   contents? I'm going to say no because I   wasn't ready with a folder yet. I'm   going to say I'm going to make a new   folder called codeex   hello world.

 Actually, I'm going to make   a new repo here called Codex uh Codex   examples.   Okay. And uh in here, I'm going to make   a a new folder called Codex Hello World   as we need to make our first hello world   of course. Okay. And now I'm going to   type in codeex. So when you do this, I'm   assuming that it's initializing a   project somewhere.

 This is something   that Claude does and I feel that uh   Codex probably does that as well. We   will find out as we work through this.   Um it says, do you trust the content?   I'm going to say yes. And so now we are   in codeex. So um we might not   necessarily be authenticate. I'm going   to type in status and I am logged in. So   I'm going just log out here so you can   get a similar experience.

 So now I'm   logged out and I remember type codeex   codeex. Um and so we'll get Codex   launched up here. And right away it's   asking me how do I want to authenticate?   Because it knows there's nothing here.   I'm going to use chatbt. So I'm going to   hit enter and it's going to give me a   link.

 It's going to try to open this   thing up. It doesn't work good in WSL 2.   So, I have to copy this directly. If you   are on a Mac with this, it'll be a lot   easier. So, I'm over here and I   authenticate with my Google. So, I'm   going to go over here to my Google. We   are going to get in there and I'll hit   continue.   Okay. And now we are   authenticated.

 So, it says, you know,   you are signed in. You can close this   now. I go ahead and hit enter. I'm now   logged in and I want to set up our most   basic project here. So, I'm gonna just   say a new file. Whoops. Uh, actually,   I'll just tell like, can you make me   a file uh hello worldrb   that prints hello world? Okay, so I'm   going to go ahead and ask it.

 I'm on   GPT.5.4.   We'll talk about how to switch stuff, do   that stuff later. Right now, we are   doing the most basic thing. Okay. So,   I'm just generating out that hello   world.   Okay.   And   I don't see it here. Oh, you know why?   Anytime you have a new folder, I got to   do code period. I got to open that   context here.

 It's just reopening that   there. I'm not sure why it's   downloading, but there we go. And so,   now we can see that it generated our   hello world. Look at that. Okay. Um, and   so we have now   successfully installed it,   authenticated. Again, you can check your   status, right? You go to codeex here.   You can check your status.

 If you're   logged in by going here, you can see I   have this information.   Okay, I'm going to make that a little   bit bigger. Um, and that's all we want   to do. Just make a hello world file.   That's about it.   We'll say get addit commit hyphen m oops   get init. I guess I might might not have   made that repo yet.

 But anyway, I'll   push that to GitHub. Okay, this repo   it'll be in my, you know, exampo,   right? So like here I have one for claw.   I actually just pushed it. I was late   doing it, but I will I will push it here   to, you know, codeex examples here.   Okay, chiao.   Okay, let's take a look here at how we   use codecs with the API key.

 So, Codex   API key can be used to control costs and   usage for codecs. It's useful for   production use cases and automated   systems. Um, or you know maybe you need   more usage than the subscription can   provide and so this is a way to go   beyond your limits of your of your   subscription. Um but the idea here is   that you will generate out an API key   and you will paste it into codeex um and   then you can also set it via an   environment variable.

 This is probably   what you would do if you were working um   in a remote system setting it for   automation. That would be the approach   you'd have there. In order to add   credits, you need to go to the   platform.openai.com,   have an account, sign up, and then once   you're there, you would add to your   balance. So,   okay folks, let's go ahead and get API   key access hooked up here.

 So, I'm going   to make a new Actually, we don't even   really need a new folder. We just need   to go ahead and log out of codeex. So,   we'll go here and I just want to make   sure uh yeah, we can say yes on this. I   just want to make sure that uh we are   indeed logged in. So, let's say go ahead   and log out.

 And so, now I'm not logged   into anything. Okay. And the next thing   we need to do is go over   platform. Uh   was it chatgpt? So we're trying to find   where it is. It's platform.openey.com.   I really dislike Oh, it brought us right   in here. But sometimes if you're not   logged in, I'm going to see if we can   see the actual main one.

 Let's go to   openai.com because I just want to show   you how confusing this can be. So you go   over to OpenAI. Okay. Think, okay, well,   where is it? You know, developers.   Great. Okay. And so you got to go AI   platform here, right? And we're still   not in which is so darn confusing. But   then, you know, we can go here and click   on start building.

 Go AI dash API   dashboard. Now, you do have to have an   account already. So, go ahead and create   your account. Um, and then we do have   stuff over here. What we're interested   in is our API key. And here I have a   test one. I'm going to go ahead and   revoke my key.   Okay. I do have an org. So if you're   personal, it's going to be a little bit   different.

 Okay, but I have an org and   so it's pretty much the same. And I'm   going to go ahead and add a key.   All right. And so here we're going to   just say API key test. And you have   projects. You always get a basic one. So   I'll leave it in there. We have all   restricted read only. I'm going with all   because I need it to actually do   something and work. There's our key.

 I'm   going to go over to here. We will type   in codeex. Whoops. Code codeex. I'm just   going to go to the Hello World app. Type   in codeex here. I'm going to sign in   with my own API key. I'm going to paste   it in. We'll hit enter. Okay. And I'm   now going to ask it like, can you tell   me the contents of this repo   of this folder? Okay.

 And so I'm just   asking a very basic question. It   shouldn't take too long.   And so it's showing the contents there.   And so it works, right? So that's one   way. I'm going to go ahead and log out   because the other way I want to see if   it works. So, if we type in codeex,   notice that it's prompting us. I'm going   to hit I'm going to hit escape or   control uh control shift. Oh, sorry.

  Controll C to get out of there. And the   next way we want to do to set that API   key. So, I believe it's export   um   I need my slide to go check. And it is   wrong slide. Let me find the right one   here. It's going to be open. Whoops.   Open   AI API key equals. And I'm going to   paste that key in there.

 I'm just going   to go ahead and copy it again. I just   clicked the copy button here. Okay. I'm   going to hit paste. We'll go to the end.   We'll hit uh whatever there. And now I'm   going to type in codeex. It's still   picking it up. So, it didn't pick it up.   Provide your own API key. Oh, but there   it is.

 So, I didn't set that, right? So   it came in from the export. So we'll go   ahead and hit enter. Okay. That's really   really interesting.   All right. So I say you know what is in   this repo.   Okay.   Give it a second there to tell us what's   in that repo. Not a whole lot, right?   And it's thinking. It's thinking. Yeah.   Minimal project, right? So I'm going to   go ahead and hit status.

 Here we can see   token usage 99%   data not available collaboration mode   API key. So I'm going to go ahead and   say log out. I want to unset that key   there because I want to prove that um it   came in that way and the it wasn't just   the open open API thing. So that's open   AI key. So we have unset   open AI.

 It's very hard for me to   remember that. Just trying to find the   correct slides here where it has Oh, the   image. Come on. Where are you? Slide.   I'm looking off screen. Sorry about   that.   There it is. Okay. So, OpenAI API.   Whoops. API key. I'm going to make sure   it's not there. So, I'm going to type in   envaii.   Making sure nothing is set.

 Okay,   perfect. And I'm going to type in codeex   again. I'm go down here. Notice it   didn't fill it in. So if it's set, it   will pick it up that way, right? In the   export, if it's set, it would pick it up   here. You still have to go through that   interface. Not sure why they make you go   through that interface, but I guess it's   a good way to explicitly know which one   you are utilizing.

 Um, but yeah, pretty   straightforward. The other thing we will   do is just make sure we get rid of that   key. So, I'm going to go over to here,   where I have this key, right? I'm going   to go ahead and delete that. Revoke it.   There we go. And uh somewhere in here   you can load up your credits.   So I the reason I don't want to show   that is because I don't want to end up   um exposing any uh uh financial   information.

 But somewhere in here you   can load up load it up. And I feel like   if you were to go here it probably would   prompt you to go to the right place to   buy. So again this is developer course.   I think you can find it folks. Um but   there you go. Okay. Chowo chia.   Okay, so let's take a look at   subscriptions chatbt that interact with   codecs.

 So basically, as far as I   understand, if you have a subscription,   you get access to codeex, but you really   can't do much with free. Go is going to   limit you from advanced reasoning   models, which you're going to want. So   you're going to want to pay that $25,   okay? Whatever that is. This is   American, so Canadian, it's more than   that for me, but like I'm paying 30   Canadian for this and 30 Canadian for   Claude. So that sounds about right.

 Um,   in terms of usage, when you're using um,   uh, Claude and Claude code, they share   the same usage, right, across   everything. That's not how chatbt and   OpenAI works. So uh, so the way it works   with Chachbt and OpenAI codecs is they   don't share usage. They have their own   buckets.

 So you can freely use chatbt   without it impacting your codeex usage   and vice versa. Um in order to keep   track the only way that I can figure it   out uh for codecs at this time is   status. So you type for/ status and you   see a 5 hour limit and a weekly limit.   This is the same as clouds. When we say   it is a rolling window that means after   the 5h hour period it will reset and   you'll come back and you have a a weekly   rolling limit as well.

 Um for detailed   breakdown we can find information in the   platform.AI openai uh.com/usage.   Um and so here is that example where we   can see usage. We can even see across   users. I have a company account, right?   So we can see that information, but your   personal accounts are going to have   something very similar.

 One thing that   Codex does not have which or um which   Claw does have is this extra uses thing.   So this this screenshot is from Claw.   Okay. And the idea is you turn it on,   you say I want to go over a certain   amount and that's how it works. Um but   the thing is is that with um codeex if   you run out of your chat GPT   subscription um it's there's no easy   interface.

 You literally have to go buy   API tokens and then add your API token   key. Um so you can do that but it's just   not a seamless like transition over.   Okay so that's the only key difference   there but there you go. Okay   we are talking about context window   size. This is the total working memory a   model can hold at once and includes both   its inputs and outputs measured tokens.

  So here I pulled GPT 5.3. I think 5.4 is   out right now. Uh there might even be   newer models, but this is the one I'm   using as a reference. And notice it has   400,000 uh token context window, right?   And so that is its total working memory   inputs and outputs. What's interesting   is they they'll show here you here the   max output tokens.

 And so um this is   where it's going to stop. Um, and so   that doesn't necessarily mean that it   will always be this. It's just whatever   you're using, it's going to cap out here   and it's going to let you have more   input than output. Um, we do know that   once you go over 200,000   uh context window in Claude, which is   the competitor, we start to see bad   results.

 And so, um, we see results like   it's just not listening or it's   hallucinating   um, and just quality control issues. Um,   and so I don't think the GPT models are   any different. um the larger context you   can run to issues and so maybe uh Codeex   is trying to manage uh those issues by   capping out the output tokens to 128,000   and that kind of makes sense when you   look at it like that where it's   controlling that output whereas uh   claude not so much it doesn't control   that it's up to you you get more finite   control um but anyway the other thing I   need to just point out is that when we   talk about conversations imagine you   started a conversation with a larger   context window imagine there is a model   that has a million a million context   window tokens and if you and you were to   switch it to a smaller one 400,000 you   have to consider that you would lose   that data right so um I'm not sure if   we'll run into this edge case here with   codeex I don't I don't usually try to

  run the $1 million uh context model so   uh uh context context window so it's   it's less of an issue for me um but I   just wanted to point that out there are   two ways we can manage our context   window we have clear and compact   Okay, so clear clear is going to clear   the conversation, right? So start from   zero.

 Compact is going to manually   trigger conversation history   summarization. Now it automatically   happens. So when you start to hit the   limit of your context window, it's going   to summarize your conversation so you   can keep on going. That's why it feels   like you can go forever with chatbt   because it's constantly summarizing.   You're just not seeing it do that.

 But   sometimes when it summarizes it loses   key information. And so that's also the   reason why you know you understand like   why don't you remember everything   because it has to do with how it   selectively pulls information in. So if   you have a lot of information it needs   to live an external knowledge base that   it can pull from. Okay.

 But anyway we   have these two commands. So yeah codeex   automanages context. It doesn't hit hard   limits like claude. So claude will you   have actually have a command cla code.   You have a command called for/context.   It'll show you as it's filling up. You   will never see this in codecs. It'll   feel infinite until it degrades.

 And so   you just have to have a sense of   degragation and when to call these.   Okay.   So, we want to be able to manage our   context window size. And so, what I'm   going to do here is go into our hello   world. I'm gonna go ahead and type in   codeex. I got to go log back in uh to   Tatypt as I am currently logged out.

 And   also if it's been a while, you might   have to just reauthenticate. It's not   going to stay there forever. It's for   your safety. And I'm just authenticating   here off screen. Now on screen,   obviously. And we'll go ahead and hit   continue. Get ourselves in there nice   and comfortable.

 And we'll go ahead and   hit enter. Okay, because now we're   ready. And so, um, I want to see if   there's a way for us to see   our contact size. Like, is there any   way? I don't even think there is. So, if   we hit this tab here, and I'm just   looking here. Resume fork plan compact.   Can we see that? There's a status line.   I wonder if we could update the status   line to find out.

 But I'm going to go   ahead here and I'm going to say, um, can   you create me a tick tac   toe game? I, you know what I'm going to   do? I'm going to just back out for a   second. We'll make a new project. Tick   tac toe.   Tic-tac-toe.   CD tic-tac-toe. And I'm going to reopen   this here.   And I'm going to go create me a tick tac   toe game as a bash script   um using bash scripting. Okay.

 And so   we'll go ahead and run that   and that's going to go ahead and create   that. Now I didn't do code period so I   can't exactly see what I'm doing. I   should really back out one directory so   we can see everything. I'll do that in a   moment once this is done generating.   Yes, you are.

 It knows that it's empty,   so it can do whatever it wants. And so,   we are just waiting for it to figure out   what it's doing.   While that's going on, I'm just going to   hit a new tab here.   Oh, no. Let's try this again. Oh, didn't   let me do that. That's fine. We'll wait   a moment. And so, here is our code.   And now it's running it to make sure   that it works.

 It's telling that we can   run it. I'm just going to quit out of   here. Just going to back out of   directory. Do code period on my top   level repo here just so I have an easier   time navigating. Now it's it's a it's a   non-issue early on here, but as our repo   grows, this could be a problem. At least   with Claude, it would like to go up a   directory and search it at stuff that I   don't expect it to look at.

 But anyway,   so here we have our tic-tac-toe.   Okay, tic tac toe. We're going to go   ahead and run it.   Oh, but you know the thing that happened   is that we left that conversation. So   now we don't know what the context is.   So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to   type in codeex.   If we ever get a conversation, we can   just go ahead and type in resume.

  Okay. And if we do do that,   which is one minute ago, it'll it'll   bring back that into context. So, I have   a question like, can codeex tell me   how large my context window size is?   One thing I think that it probably could   do maybe update the status line and tell   us status line is the thing. It's the   thing down below here that shows here.

 I   wonder if it could be updated to show us   that. I think that would be interesting   to see.   So here like how would you even know the   local environment doesn't expose the   context size directly through enviring   codecs locally.   So the practical usable window size is   this.   Okay. But can we ever   see the size?   Is there any data we can expose to   status line   to see our current   working context size window.

  Okay. And this is where it's kind of   frustrating because if you can't track   it, it's a bit hard. Now, if we were   programmatically working with it via the   um their SDK, I'm sure we could probably   get that information,   but through this interface, we might not   be able to get that information. And so,   we're just looking, waiting, seeing what   it says.

  What's interesting, it is searching some   codeex file,   but there's nothing in that. So, I'm   actually a bit confused. Is this not a   um   uh I thought this was just an empty   file, but maybe it's not. So here it   says your local codeex indic indicates   active model. I'm checking whether   codeex exposes a live token.

  So here suggesting this is an SQLite   database. Okay. Um so we have it.   There's no obvious status f uh   information focusing that.   So no, it's not going to tell us. That's   interesting. One thing I'd like to do   while I'm here, I do have SQLite   installed. If you don't, well, I mean,   you'd have to because that's how it's   able to check it, but I want to go here   and just open it up for a second.

 I'm   not the best at uh can I split this   here? There we go. But I'm just curious   if I go into tic-tac-toe here. SQLite   3.codeex.   Uh I just take a look at some of the   queries here.   Show tables.   Escoite is not something I remember the   queries for.   Can you create me a cheat sheet   markdown file   for SQLite commands   I can run against my codeex uh file.

  Okay. And actually another thing that we   could probably do there might be an   extension for SQLite to view it. Esco   light   3.   Um   I mean this one's more popular. We don't   need to edit any data. We just need to   view it. So I'm going to go ahead here   and try this now. Did that work?   Go back over to here.

 Sometimes when   that happens, you have to refresh.   Uh just like reload here.   Do you want me to allow writing a   markdown cheat file in this workspace?   Yes, of course. I'm just trying to get a   cheat sheet as well so that we can test   it. There we go. And so in here   we might have some examples. It seems   like there's more stuff in here than   just what we're expecting as it's going   to very specific things.

 I'm just I'm   just confused because what is this? This   is a binary. What is it? I'm literally   I'm going to make the next video about   like what it is because I I'm not I'm   very curious. I I thought it was just an   empty file, the configuration file.   But anyway, I guess it must not be there   must be this must be an archive.

 But the   point is is that we want to focus on   um context size, right? And so we have   no idea what our context size is. And so   all we can do is type in compact.   Okay. And that will summarize our   working conversation. So, it really is a   touch and feel kind of thing.   I want to stay uh on point here with the   the the uh compact and clear. Okay.

 But   anyway, so we're compacting the   conversation. No visibility whatsoever.   I don't like that.   And we'll just wait till it comes back   and reports to us. I was hoping with the   database that maybe we could open it up   and see if we could find the information   ourselves, but there's obviously more to   that file. So, now it's compacted.

 If we   want to clear it out, we type in clear.   That's basically like starting a new   conversation. Here it says to to uh   token usage total input.   So it's literally showing us the number,   but it didn't show us when we compacted   it. Weird.   Weird. So there is information. How did   we get that active information? I have   no idea. But hey, at least we tried.

  Okay, so that's your compact. That is   your clear.   All right. So, I did a bit more research   into this codeex file as it was really   confusing me and I mean it says this   here but like with more research I   figured out what it is. It is just an   empty file and it's just there uh before   we have the folder because there is a   folder called.

codeex but was really   throwing me off was that there's this   empty file and I thought maybe it wasn't   a file it was a binary and it was   searching that SQLite stuff. Uh maybe   there are escalite files down the road   here as we will find out. But for now, I   just wanted to uh clear that confusion.   This is really strange.

 I don't know why   they would do that. Um like why make a   file that in the place of a folder   that's not there, but   I maybe it helps codeex load that area.   I don't know. But anyway, that's what it   does. Strange, right? Cha chia.   Okay, let's talk about codeex sessions.   This is functionally the same as a   conversation with your codeex agent.

 So   when you start talking to it, that is a   session. When you type the word codeex,   you are starting a new session. Okay,   every time you do that, uh you can use   the for/ new to start a new session   whenever you want. And I need to make it   clear that when we say sessions, we can   also mean threads, messages,   conversation.

 These are interchangeable   terms in the database. they call them a   thread. In uh some interfaces it calls   it a session. In other places it calls   it a conversation. And at the very low   level it really are messages. Um so just   understand I'm going to keep mixing that   term so you get used to it. But we're   all talking about sessions.

 That's going   to be the top level word I want to use   because other providers use that as   their anchor word and I want to make it   consistent so that you can move between   codecs and other providers. Um, so   obviously we can use the new command and   talk to it and a new session is created   every time we do that.

 Uh, we can also   fork a session. So that's where you can   resume a previous session without   affecting the original session. Um, and   so we have the for/fork command. It's   different than cloud code because cloud   code will allow you to choose any point   in time similar to get forking, but this   it's just copying it and we're   continuing on the conversation from   there. There's no point in time history.

  Uh and I say you don't specify a session   ID, but this is uh yeah, you don't for   for the fork command, right? But there   is a session ID for sessions, and we'll   talk about that here in just a moment.   Okay. Um so we also have the resume and   rename. We've already probably   encountered resume.

 Resume allows you to   resume a previous conversation. Okay.   Um, and so if you were to quit, uh, like   if you're if you made a new   conversation, you were to quit, it would   actually tell you what session ID you   are using. So you can run this command   again to re-enter the conversation. If   you resume a previous conversation and   quit for some reason, it doesn't spit   that out, which is kind of annoying, but   we can get to the session ID.

 I'll talk   about where it actually is stored. Um,   rename basically gives this a   conversation alias. So now you can do   codeex resume whatever. for some reason   at this time it does not show up in the   um resume history. I'm not not sure why   they didn't do that, but it's not there.   So, you have to kind of remember what it   is.

 Or if you really want to get to it,   um there is a uh an SQL light file in   your uh codeex directory in the home   directory and there's a table called   threads, right? And if you get ID and   title, there's the ID, there is that   title, and it does not store the rename   in there. The rename is stored for some   reason in a separate file called   sessions index json uh jsonl and there   it is.

 Um so yeah I mean it kind of   feels like codeex was coded with using   codeex because um these structures are   very illogical to me but that's where   they are and if we ever need to get that   information we can find it that way.   Okay.   Hey folks, it's Andrew and we are going   to take a look at that new command, that   fork command.

 So right now I'm in that   tick tic-tac-toe. Just going to quit out   here so we are at the same level. I'm   going to go ahead and type in codeex,   right? And um we can go ahead and type   in resume to go to a previous   conversation. So here is the one a while   ago where we created the tic-tac-toe   game. So I'm going to hit enter.

 And so   what I can do is if I want to fork this   conversation, I can go ahead and do   that. And now it's forked. And I can say   um you know can you add colors to the uh   bash game, right? Because right now I   don't believe that there's any colors.   And so I'm just asking for a small   graphical improvement   and it should be able to figure   something out.

 We'll give it a moment   here to figure that out. If there's   anything it needs to accept, we'll just   accept it, but it won't take too long.   Okay.   Um, and so we'll go ahead and we'll say   yes. Don't ask me again for these files.   Okay. Okay. So, um, we have that. What   I'm curious is like if we go back to   resume,   right? We now have, uh, this one here   and this one here.

 Um, is it easy to see   what they are? Not necessarily because   we can't name those sessions. Uh in   clawed code you can name your your   sessions but I don't believe here that   you can rename them. I'm going to go   just double check rename.   Oh we can. Okay. Rename. And so we can   call this one I wasn't sure but we'll   call this um tick tac toe improved.

  Okay. And then we'll go back to presume.   Uhhuh. But it doesn't show   that it's like great, we renamed this   thread, but like I don't I don't see   that reflected. I'm gonna go ahead and   stop this. Gonna type in clear.   Oh, look here. So now we can resume it   based on it's information. Interesting.   Interesting. One second.

 I'm gonna make   this a slide. Okay. All right. Something   else that's really interesting is if I   go here and type in codeex and we'll   just say hello,   right? And then I quit out. One second   here. I quit out. Notice it's outputting   a session ID, which is interesting   because before I thought maybe, you   know, we didn't know what it is.

 Also   notice we're getting our token usage not   when we're currently in the active token   uh in the uh interface, but we can see   it here, which is kind of a weird way to   uh work around that problem. Okay.   Sorry, I keep pausing because I get good   screenshots here and then I go back and   record uh pre previous videos so they're   better for you.

 Um, and so, you know,   one thing I I have in my mind is like,   okay, we have this one with a session   ID. We have another one with a name.   They must be storing this somewhere. And   so, I would think that this would go   into a home directory here, like codeex.   Okay. And then in here, I'm looking for   sessions   for uh for Claude.

 It's um it's called   projects. We'll go to sessions here 2026   04. I'm just trying to find where this   information is. Today is probably 05.   Okay. And then we have roll out. So I'm   going to just cat this stuff here. Take   a look.   So here we do have information, but   that's not really that helpful.   Uhuh. Okay.

 Okay. And so what I'm trying   to figure out here is like where is this   stuff stored as we also have these   SQLite directories as well and we also   have logs over here as well. Um and I'm   just trying to correlate where that is   because right now like I don't know   where these session IDs are stored. So   I'm going to go back over to here and   we're just going to ask codeex.

  It's like where are where is codeex   storing the session ids or names for   conversation threads?   Um   this must be in codeex.   Is it in an SQL database?   And the reason why I want to know this   is that at least I'm not aware of   there's no command that's going to list   out all the session IDs and the session   names. And so we can't get it that way.

  I want to know explicitly where it is. I   have a feeling that it's in that folder   um in the SQLite directory. Notice here   that it's exploring locally, but there   we go. That's where I want it to go. And   so it's going into here. It's checking   the logs.   Okay. And it is querying. So select name   SQL.   So it's checking what all the names of   the tables are here.

  So JSON L index named an SQL 8 threads   table for broad thread metadata.   So it's using both plain files. Yeah.   Yeah. We know that.   And so here we have the conversation   thread metadata is here. Let's go take a   look at this. So I'm just going to cat   out that file.   I mean that is the thread name.

 So that   at least tells us that we can find the   thread name in the sessions index.jsonl.   That's interesting. Um   this has threads tables per thread   metadata.   And then the other place I guess it must   be in the state file.   Okay. So the short answer is yes.   There's SQL database but the thread   names are stored in a plain JSON index   file.

 All the actual conversations are   stored in sessions, not only in the SQL   light.   Okay. Um, and so, you know, we can go   back to our cheat sheet here because I   wasn't expecting us to do this right   away, but maybe we can. And so here,   yeah, see here, this is actually the   perfect command. This is actually what I   want. So, I'm going to go down to here.

  I already have SQLite 3 installed. So,   you might have to install it, you know,   pseudo app install, whatever, whatever.   Or just look up Linux installite 3.   though I'm pretty sure it comes   pre-installed on WSLT with with Ubuntu.   And so here what I'm trying to do is see   the contents.   Um, and we're doing all which is not   very helpful. So I'm going to go here.

  Maybe there's one called ID. Ah, there   we go. Okay. I I wish it would just   describe the table to me. We have list   tables, show schema. This is actually   what I need. So I'm going to grab this   one here. And so we have an ID here.   Source model title. So I have ID title.   So I'm going to go back and hit up and   we'll say ID title.

  Okay. And so there it is. So the idea is   that we have an ID uh a title um and   then the name in that other file. Very   strange system, but I mean if we wanted   to resume one of these conversations   this way, that's how we are going to do   it, right? Um, but anyway, we are a   little bit off track here.

 No, maybe   we're not. Let me just check. I could   have swore we had other commands that I   wanted to run here. Um, I think we did   the new command, right?   And we did the fork command, we did the   resume, and we did the rename. And now   we know where the stuff is coming from.   So, no, we covered everything. So,   that's perfect.

 Um, but yeah, I'm going   to go and you're going to already see   this. I'm going to retroactively add   this information so we explicitly know   and we will figure it out from there.   Okay. Cha chia.   So I want to revisit the idea of viewing   token usage. I think I said in the   context window size that we don't have   that visibility   within um codecs.

 I was wrong as I had   to do more digging to find it and it was   too hard for me to update the prior   video. So I'm just correcting it now.   Um, and so I noticed that when you would   quit out of a session, it would actually   output token usage, say total input and   then cached output, right? Um, and so   I'm like, okay, where is that coming   from? And so I found out that they come   from these roll up rollout files.

 Um,   and you have to cross reference them   with the um, SQLite databases and stuff   like that. And so I've created a base   script in the follow along that follows   this video. Um, I'm already have a   script. I'm just going to work on it a   bit. And so you don't need to do   anything.

 just watch the video and see   how it works and then run it on your own   machine so you can get um output and uh   then we can accurately track uh that   usage. Okay.   Hey folks, it's Andrew and in this video   I want to uh try out this usage script.   Now I just ask ask codeex like can you   make one for me as right now it's very   hard for us to see our current context   window usage.

 I would think that would   be information we could add to our   status line. Um but uh what I'm going to   do here is I'm just going to cd out and   you would have to download this repo.   It's in uh the exampro. Um it's over   here the pro codeex examples. I didn't   even push the repo but it will be pushed   but it'll be over here right.

 Um and so   let's go ahead and see if we can execute   the script. The only thing that it did   need um that I did not have installed   which I was actually surprised was   ripret. or u yeah rip gp um which is   heavily heavily used um this by claude   so I'm really surprised it wasn't there   so we'll just put here like prerec   okay   and   this will be our usage   here and so the way this should work is   that it's going to read um   uh what files is it going to read let's   take a look here it reads the rollout   file So go let's go take a look at how   the script works. So we have the state   fi file where we get the state database   and then we have the session index.   Okay. And if we scroll on down oh we   have the usage and stuff there. That's   nice. And so what I'm looking for is   exactly where that information is.   Um

  and so I believe it's pulling it from   the rollout file   which is not very clear from that bash   script.   Okay. Um,   but that's fine. I just want to see if   this actually works and we can get our   usage. So, I'm going to go back over to   here to my readme. I'm going to go ahead   and run the latest.

 And the idea is that   it's going to look at the last thread   that we had and check its usage. Um, and   so I'm going to go ahead and run that.   And here it says the thread. It has no   thread name. What's the name of the   thread? What model did it use? And then   we have the context window down below.   The only thing I don't like is it's not   um common eliminated.

 So, I might just   go ahead here and update it and just say   um my my uh script outputs   the model context window,   you know, number, but it's hard to read   uh because it's not deliminated.   Also, it's not showing us   total uh context window,   you know, eg, you know, used   versus total   and um there's also and like also we   don't know like and I don't know if we   can find that information out but like   there's also like what was outputed   versus what is the full context context   window and so that's kind of a challenge   that we have here. I don't again I don't   know why this isn't just built into it   but you know codeex keeps it light   and we'll see if we can update my script   here. We'll be back in just a moment.   You won't have to do any of this. It'll

  just you'll just run it. Okay.   Um, but yeah, here, look at these files.   So, it's pulling from   like the rollup files. Just want to grab   that here. And I'm just going to put   some uh information,   you know, so we can   determine   token usage based on   rollout roll out. Did I said roll out?   Rollout files.   session roll files.

  We'll have to figure out what those are.   I'll probably make a slide. You'll   probably have already seen it before we   looked at this. Um,   and now it's just running the script   itself.   Okay. So, I'm going to go back over to   here.   Says it's good now.   And I want to go down here and run this.   Oh, I'm not in the uh I'm not in the   right directory.

 I'm going to just quit   out here and run it here.   And so now we have something way more   readable. Um I'm not sure why it's   saying 258,   but that's what's coming up with. And so   at the very least, we're kind of getting   some sense of usage, but you can tell   it's not as easy. It'd be really nice if   um we could replicate that context   command that uh Claude has because then   we could keep track and be like, okay,   our usage is not the best, right? Or   whatever.

 Uh but I would probably try to   roll this into um because now that we   have the script, I'd probably try to   roll it into our status line and maybe   we will try doing that, right? Because   here we could pass it in exactly the   current context and stuff like that and   limit the information. Um, but for now I   would say we're starting to get some   information.

 Um, and it wasn't in this   video, but we did observe uh the token   usage. I think it's when we quit, right?   So it would just say like hi like this   and then we quit. We do get this   information. And so it would be nice to   like correlate and see if that   information is the same. I guess we   could just run the last one, right? And   so here we see total 2   950. And so that's why it's confusing.

  So I can go back over to here and copy   this. I'm not going to save it, but I   just want to paste this in here   like this.   And   this this   like why is there a discrepancy? Right.   So I noticed um codeex when quitting   reported much lower usage than our   codeex   uh   our our report file   for usage did.

 What's going on here?   And I was hoping go to debug mode. And   so I can just paste it in. And so now we   have that information.   I don't think it I don't think it pasted   right. We'll try that again. And   I want to go back over to here.   Oops. I'm going just copy this whole   block here.   Our usage uh numbers for our report   don't match what Codeex reports when   quitting.

 See, if we can paste that in   now. There we go. And so now I'm giving   it more information.   I think I think that's the right   information, right?   I'm going to go over here. I just don't   trust it.   Yeah. No, no, we gave it. Okay. And so   it's off the races. I've confirmed a   tiny repo with just the report scripts.   So it the mismatch is likely in parsing   the logic rather than the surrounding   code. I'm reading the script.

 uh and the   reference JSONL again the raw rule   already explains this best the script is   reading input tokens which includes   cache input while codeex quit summary   separates input I'm I'm updating the   report to display the split instead of   the collapse of everything oh that   sounds better okay   and again we might be able to use the   script in our status line assuming that   that information is not already   available in our status line I had   already asked separately in a separate   video if I could get it and it was like   no I can't do that for to uh which I was   surprised. Um but uh again there's not   much in the docs and um I wouldn't know   how to go about inspecting. I guess we   could just ask codeex like hey tell tell   me what data gets returned back in the   status line um because maybe it's   already there but we are just looking at   a way to fully understand it. So here it   says now produces this information. Okay   and we'll just wait for it to update the   script. All right and so it thinks that   it has repaired the script. verify with

  the uh this file here. Sure. And so I'm   just going to stop it here. And so now   we have 2823 with cache and output.   We'll go ahead and run the latest. And   here   we are now getting   our total usage here. And now we're   getting a lot better accurate   information. One thing that I would I   would prefer is if this script would   return back this JSON data.

 Now, this   again, this data might be already   available um in our status line, which I   don't know, but we'll have to make that   a separate video. And so, I'm going to   go back to here. I know you're just   watching me coding and you're just   learning as we go here, but um I would   just say, you know, uh the report is   great.

 Um I can can you add a JSON   output mode so we can get the report   back as JSON?   And I'm just going to make sure it   doesn't already have that mode. I'm   pretty sure it doesn't.   It doesn't. Um, the default mode will be   text, which will print the current   report format as is.   Okay. And so   I'm going to update that one last time   here because again I'm thinking that   maybe we can use that in the status   line, but we'll have to investigate the   status line separately, which is that   thing down here below. Okay. All right.

  So it says that it's applied the update   and we have um our option here. So I'm   going to go ahead and copy that, close   it out, hit enter, and we get back   information. Uh that's not very   readable. So I'm going to go ahead and   do jq. JQ's already installed on my   machine. Uh, I thought that's all we   have to do.

  How do we How do we output JQ? Or maybe   it's um this   and then we pipe it to JQ. That's   probably it. JQ like that. Period. I   don't know how I know that, but we'll go   back to here. And we'll just take a look   at what we have. I think it's because we   aren't specifying what and it's   returning everything.

 And so here   probably I have to do hyphen hyphen   latest like that.   Okay. And so now what we can see is mode   latest output JSON limit 10 threads.   Um   and so it's just giving us the last   thread here because obviously multiples   can be returned. And so now we have this   information. Um I'm just going to go   ahead here and give it an example   because sometimes what helps is that if   you put um output output examples in   here then um it can be used later on.

 So   output example.   There we go.   And so you know if we if we need to   leverage this I'm not sure if we do but   if we need to leverage this we will be   able to   let me save that file.   What's wrong? Let me save it. Let me   save it.   Oh I saved it in the wrong spot maybe.   Hold on here.   No, it says, "Oh, there's a newer file.

"   Okay, hold on here. Save it. Yeah. Uh,   overwrite. It's fine. We will go   overwrite that one. The only thing   that's missing here is that JSON option.   So, I just got to write it back in here.   I guess what it was saying was already   open and it just didn't refresh it. So,   I lost that information.

 So, we have   output JSON. There we go. Like that.   There we go.   Um, and now we have   update usage a way to keep track of our   usage. Okay, but we'll see if we there's   a better way.   Let us take a look at status line. So,   you can choose what appears   under your uh your your prompt. Okay, so   we have GPT 4.5.

 how much usage is left,   uh the weekly usage, the context window,   um how much we're using in and out.   Okay. And we actually created a script   because I wasn't sure if we could get   that information. Um but eventually I   just tried it out here and it was very   obvious that you could just checkbox   these things.

 Um the only thing is that   I thought that this was going to work   like clog with a bash script and that   there would be a session JSON. And so as   I'm doing the lab that comes up here,   I'm basically exploring and trying to   understand how this thing works. Uh and   I didn't re-record it because I thought   it was interesting to see where all the   data sources were coming from.

 Um but uh   anyway, the point is we can check box it   off in our other script we do do not   even need. But it's nice that we have   created it and that we can work with it.   Um because maybe there is something else   we can do with our script if we ever   needed to uh like keep track of our our   usage. Um so I you know we have that.

  Okay. Cha chia.   In this video, we are going to explore   status line as that will allow us to   have more information that we would like   to know. One thing that's hard is   finding anywhere in the documentation of   what data is returned back in the status   line. So, I figured we will use codecs.   Um, and we can do this anywhere.

 I'm in   the usage script, but uh we'll use   codecs to see if we can determine what   is in the status line. So codeex can   return can update   uh the status line, but I don't know.   I'm going to just go back a second here.   I'm going to make a new folder here.   Call it status line. Okay. And we'll cd   into that directory.

 And I'm just going   to say codeex lets us update the status   line. I assume that it uses um session   JSON data, but I don't know its schema.   Is there a way you can probe and return   the actual JSON data or how it collects   data   and put that in a markdown file   so we can see right and so I'm going to   go task it with that because I assume   that's what it's doing somewhere it's   reading something um because that's how   claude works.

  Right. And also Claude has like ash file   that gets stored in a very particular   location. There is a for/comand for us   to update our status line which will   just probably write a bash script. But   let's see what it comes back with. So   it's trying to figure it out. So I'm   tracing the status line project.

  I don't know if it understands like   I found a local codeex state in logs   which is enough.   Okay, hold on. Stop. Stop. Okay. Do you   understand   that I am talking about codeex status   line feature   and I just happen to have a folder   called status line   because I just want to make sure it   understands that context because it   might not I might have confused it.

  Not this workspace folder. The folder   name sent. Yeah. So there we go. That   confused it. So now it's gonna go ahead   here.   Uhhuh. And so it's going to go to the   web and try to find something about   status line. I can do that as well,   right? I can say uh codec status line.   And um   yeah, I'll just show you here.

 Like   people go here and they're like, "Yeah,   GitHub." You know what I'm saying? Like   I'm not trying to make it feel like I'm   lazy here, but like literally I cannot   find information about the status line,   but um you know, sometimes it does a   search and figures it out.   Yeah, see it's like I can't find it.   Still can't find it.

 We'll give it a   moment here. Maybe it'll go in the code   and take a look. Look, it's like   literally looking at schema information   now.   Mhm.   So the public config does uh docs only   show this. Uhhuh.   Yeah, it's not documented.   So we're just waiting here and seeing   what it can do.   Literally, it's going to code and   checking. That's sad.

 They really got to   update their docs. People would use this   stuff more if the docs are out there.   We'll give it a moment. Okay, it used a   lot of consumption there just to um do   that for us here. I'm going to give this   a nice refresh as we do have a status   line and we're just looking for notes.   Okay, so the short answer, I did not   find evidence of custom status line   script that hooks into the thing.

 What I   did find was this um so they have this   reference here.   You know, sometimes this stuff is hard   like they have the feature but it's not   easy to find. So here we are looking   We have the configtol. It's not going to   tell us anything.   That's not helpful. We'll go back over   to here.

 So, the codeex line appears to   be an internal renderer of the name   built-in items not documented. Uh, run   my script. So, from an install   also found this   uh and now we're getting some output.   Hold on here.   The stat line appears to be assembled   from multiple internal sources, not a   single session JSON. Okay, so the relay   out JSON contains structured metadata   like this   likely mappings   persistent thread state by SQL light.

  Okay.   And here we have live token rate limit   events from rollout JSON. So the rollout   JSON contains live token information.   Uh   okay. So the the part that's confusing,   right, is like where is the status line   getting updated? So if I go here,   right, and I I write status line   configure where items appear.

 What if I   hit enter? We have model with reasoning.   Oh, is it just options? Is that all we   get? Oh, I was expecting this to be a   script. So this is the problem. You   know, you got to explore and find out.   So here we have total context window   size.   Use tokens, input tokens, output tokens.   Wow, there we go.

 Okay,   interesting. But hey, at least we can   get that information there. I actually   kind of like this because it's just uh   readily available. Session ID. Um I   don't care about Codex. Weekly limit.   How do I save this?   Enter to confirm.   And so now we have more information. Now   the only thing is like we can't see all   of our information.

 So, that is a little   bit silly. Like, what's the point if we   can't see it all? So, I'm going to go   back over to here status line and I just   take current directory off because oops,   that's taking up too much room, right?   Current directory. Enter. There we go.   And so now we can see our input or   output. That that is way better. Okay.

  So, I think that is what we were looking   for. Um,   but uh, yeah, I thought it would be a   bash script. That's what I was   expecting. I thought it was going to be   JSON because that's what claude does,   but it doesn't. Still, it works. Um, and   I guess our user script isn't necessary,   but now we know where the data is coming   from. We understand how it's assembly.

  There's not a single session JSON data.   Um, it's assembly on the fly, and it's   it's not something we can configure.   Okay, but there we go. Cha chia.   So the agents markdown file is a file   that sits in your repository or few   other places and the idea is that um   codeex will passively read this file and   that will inform it how to think about   your project.

 Um and so there is one in   the agents.override.mmd   in your global scope uh that's in your   home folder notice um the tilda uh   codec. So it's going to be there. Then   each project will have an agent.mmd file   and you can also have ones in   subdirectories uh and they will be   joined as it walks through your   codebase.

 So if encounters agents mds   it's going to read them as well and and   append them. Um and there is an init   command that we can use to initialize   and create our initial agents MD file if   you not sure exactly what to write. Um a   good agents MD covers repo layout   important directories how to run a   project build test and commands   engineering conventions PR exceptions   constraints do not do rules and how to   verify work I don't know what it means   by what does mean but I got this this is   straight from the doc so that's what   they wrote but anyway um there are some   things we need to know like the first   thing is that it can only read the uh 32   kilobytes and after that it will   truncate um claude is different where   it's the first 200 lines and uh anything   after that they don't want you to do it   and they want to push it into imported   statements which by the way agents MD   does not have an import shortcut um   Gemini CLI does um cloud code does uh   other ones do for some reason codeex   does not and so if we want it to read   other files I like putting things in a

  docs folder you have to say like you   must read the following files the only   disadvantage to this is like what if it   decides not to read it okay and so   sometimes I've had to do things like you   must read these files in the bottom like   are you sure you read those files you   know So, um, you know, it's not   foolproof, but we do get 32 kilobytes.

  And as we were working through this, I   wasn't aware, um, that we did not have   this import statement. And so, uh,   you'll notice that we explored through   this and we find out that like this   stuff's not documented. We're only   finding like this this information   through GitHub issues of people talking   about it.

 It's like this 32 kilobyte,   not in the docs. Okay? So, I'm going   back and forth here. like I'll record a   lecture and then do a lab and then I'll   find, oh, it's not really true and I'll   go back to this and back and forth. And   so that's why you'll notice that I have   some inconsistencies here, but I do my   best here to repair them.

 And I try to   preserve um uh where I'm finding this   stuff because that's the interesting   part. Okay. But yeah, we'll continue on.   Okay. So, in this video, we want to   explore the agents.md file. I know we   made a tic-tac-toe game. So, I'm going   to go over to that one. And in here, we   are going to create a new agent MD.

  Actually, we don't have one. And so,   what we'll use is the for/init command   to generate one out. And so, what it's   going to do is read that repo. And uh   when it's done, it's going to generate   one out.   So, there it is. And we'll give it a   moment. Okay. Okay. So, we should now   have an agent. MD.

 We'll take a look and   see what it looks like. So, I'm just   going to split over here. So, project   structure, modular organization, build,   test, uh, development commands, coding   style, naming conventions, testing   guidelines, commit and pull request   guidelines. Um, and so we have   information there. I would just now tell   like can you break up the agents MD into   a docs directory   and then just reference   uh with uh reference the um   the list of files   in the agents MD.

  So it knows   knows where to look.   Okay.   And I mean basically every heading in   the agents MD   should be its own file. Name the   markdown files   in the docs directory   snake case. Okay. So, we'll let it go   ahead and do that. And I think that will   get us a little bit better result. We'll   wait a moment here for it to do that.

  Okay, we are back. It didn't listen to   me. I said snake case. This is not snake   case. Snake case is hyphenated, but   that's fine. It's still okay. It's   consistent. And so, we're going to go to   our agents.mmd and I'm going to go over   to here   and I'll go over to here.   And we have this.

 I feel like we don't   need   um that the file is the entry point for   the contributor's guide. each topic   below is a docs. Um,   keep contributor docs in the docs   settings. I don't I don't need that. So,   we'll take that out.   And I'm going to take this out.   We'll say project guidelines.   And here   this uh   this contains all the guidelines for our   project. Okay.

 And so the thing is is   that there might be something like   coding style naming convention. And so   there's something we might want to   trigger, right? Which is um I'm going to   go to the top part here.   And I want to add like a new thing which   is like   uh always   speak like a caveman.   Uh eg   me do good.   Okay. And so now we have that.

 And so   I'm just going to see if that will take   effect that first line. And I'm going to   go ahead and just say um can you tell me   uh what this app   uh repo does?   And so what I'm hoping is it'll read   that agents.mmd file.   And I'm not sure if it picked up the   agents.mmd whatsoever   because we're in the we're in the tic   tactoe, right? Did you did you read the   tic-tac-toe? Like I'm gonna just I'm   gonna stop it.

 I'm going to try this   again because maybe it wasn't aware of   it. So, we'll try this one more time.   What is in this repo,   this this folder   me find very small folder. There we go.   And so now it's listening.   Okay. And I'm going to go ahead here and   I'm just going to because I want to make   sure that it can read   uh the stuff here.

 And so we have   styling like we'll just say like   communication standards.   We probably don't even need uh the um   name of like we could probably just have   like MD and stuff like this because I   feel like it would know that they're   here. You know what I mean?   Um, and that would just save us more   tokens for reading.

 So, I'm going to go   here.   Okay. And this is just to help it know   what there is. And that's why we also   wanted them to be named exactly what   they're supposed to be,   okay? Because just consider that's all   consuming your context, right? So, if   it's pretty straightforward,   we don't need that.   Oops.   Okay.   Because we're trying to read we're   trying to write this agent MD for the   agents ID.

 So now it should know that   and so just go here docs communication   standards.   Okay. And I'm going to go over here and   we'll make a new file in here.   Communication standards.   I say um   I'm trying to think of like a persona.   Talk like a V uh a person from the   Victorian period.   When a user   asks a question,   talk like a person from.

 So when talking   when talking to the user   talk in the style   of a person from the Victorian period.   It' probably be better to give it an   example so it knows, but I think it can   figure that out. So I'm going to just   stop this. I don't know if I really need   to do that, but we'll go ahead and say,   can you tell me what is in this folder?   I just want to make sure that it's still   loading that information.

  I might not always pick it up. Like the   thing with these files is that they're   guidance, right? And if it just chooses   not to read it, then we won't know.   And so it's doing that.   Did you did you open any of these files   to understand context?   No, I only listed the directory context   and confirmed the guideline files from   the file system.

 I did not open and read   the context files. And so there's   another thing called rules. And so maybe   rules would be a better place for it,   but I was hoping   that it would read into them. Okay. So   like Claude will Claude will Claude   MD will follow through and reference   files   uh reference uh and inject   and import files referenced.

 Does   agents MD do this?   So it says in the session agents MD told   me the project guidelines are in the   files but I do not automatically import   them. I receive agents MD from your then   uh told me the guidelines. I still need   to explicitly open each file. So if   claude is automatically pulling them   uh   sure. So just give me a second.

 Be back   in a moment. Okay. Okay. Okay. And so it   looks like people are reporting the same   problem because if you if you've used   other ones like Claude or Gemini or   other stuff they support referencing   files through an at sign and I didn't   put that in there, but here it's saying   that that doesn't exist, right? And so   there's one project where it says, "Oh,   I made this thing that you can do this   for, but uh I don't really like the name   FAF.

" Um   but here is it coming from 666.   That's the same one here. And so they   still don't have support for this   unless there is docs here that says that   we can do it.   Let's see here. Reference   what's the structured source reference a   single file. Use that to include files   directory without waiting for claude to   read them.

 So what I'm going to do is go   back over to here   because we didn't put an at sign here,   right? So, we'll go here and   do this, this, this, this, this, this.   And we'll try this again. Type in clear.   Type in codeex.   Tell me the contents.   What? Tell me what the program in this   folder does.   And so what I'm trying to do is get it   to   talk Victorian to me.

  So here it's explored the agent MD. This   repo is small.   Okay.   Coming back over here to quickly include   files directories without waiting for   claude to read them. But this is talking   about like maybe like when you are   talking to it in line, right? Which is   not the same thing that we're talking   about.

 I'm talking about like   referencing within a markdown file. Let   me just check this completely seeing if   I'm missing something. Also, I just   realized I'm a dummy because we're   looking at the cloud code documentation.   I thought when we clicked through here,   sorry, I thought when we clicked through   here, we were looking at that like we   were looking at codeex, but we're not.

  And it was it was clear that there was   something wrong because I'm like Codex   doesn't have good documentation   whatsoever. So uh that should have been   that should have been clear here.   But uh yeah it's crazy this feature does   not exist. Um the other thing is there   is codeex rules but usually rules are   things that need to be enforced.

 So give   me a second let me take a look. Yeah but   rules aren't the same thing. I forgot   they are for sandboxes.   Hm.   So, you know, this this is a problem   because I think that we should be able   to uh load in files dynamically. So,   maybe we have to look at that FAF thing   or something else. Give me just a   moment. Okay.

 Also, now we know where it   truncates at. So, here it's saying it   simply will not read anything past 32   kilobytes. Um, and so we didn't know   like I already shot the um the slide.   I'll have to go update it now. But now   we actually know the limit. Again, this   is not information in the docs. We have   to go digging for this.

 Uh, let me go   update that and I'll have to re-record   the lecture. One second. So, this person   is saying just say you must read the   following files. Well, that's not the   best, but I suppose we can give that a   go and try.   Well, let's just try this first, okay?   Because this might not give adherence,   but we will try.

  And so, we're just going to go here. I'm   just matching what that person did. And   so, we'll we'll close that out here.   We'll try that again.   Tell tell what I can't believe I'm not   even making sense here. So what program   in this in this folder   folder what program do we have like what   is it? We'll go ahead here and so here   should re read the agents.mmd.

  Okay,   we'll give it a moment here.   And now it's explored those other files   because we told it to, right? Well, I   guess technically it's exploring, right?   So, here's I've examined the project   instructions and shall now inspect the   directory contents and the principal   script to determine precisely what uh   the program resides here and what   purpose it serves.

 My good fellow, the   the folder contains a small terminal   game. So, it is a self-contained bash   script. So, there we go. So, that's the   way that we did it. The question is like   is this a good way to get adherence   because what if it doesn't decide to   read all those files but I mean that's   no different than if we had this as 32   kilobytes right um the other thing is   like how would we know how large the   file is so I would say that I would   probably want a tool that would check   the size of a file um   but how would we know if we don't have a   warning and 32 kilobytes is a lot so I'm   not sure I'm not exactly sure what we   would do for that. It wouldn't be hard   to make a script to check,   but um how would we get a warning of   that, especially if we can't update our   status line for that? So, I think that's   a bit unfortunate, but um   I guess we'll create a script. Why not?   So, we'll go ahead here and we'll say

  new folder, and this will be um uh   agents   size script.   And I'll go back here, cd agent   sidescript.   Uh, and I'm gonna go here and say,   create me a bash script   that will   read the agents   MD   and all of its   um,   doc files,   all of its markdown files.   in docs in a specific folder.   Okay, we are trying to determine if it's   32 kilobytes or smaller.

 So output the   size   and   the size right the size the total   and if we are in bounds   um and return JSON   okay so we'll go ahead and do that and   then we'll test that because I would   like to structure it this way I feel   like that is a cleaner way to do it   maybe it's not good in the long term but   you know we'll work with it okay all   right so now we have a script and here   we and check it against this way.

 So,   I'm just going to go ahead and if it   doesn't uh have a read me here,   go ahead and do this.   Okay.   Um,   and so I mean, it'd be better to run it   the other way where it's like not from   this folder, but that's fine. We'll do   it this way. And so, that comes back   with data. It's not really easy for me   to read.

 So, I'm going to go ahead and   say jq.   Okay. Um and so here we have it   limit bytes limit   file counts it's counting all the files   and the sizes of them. So total bytes is   2894 total K limit is 283   within the limit. I mean it's not very   easy for us to read but the point is   that we're very far from it and I think   32 kilobytes would take forever to get   to.

 So probably we don't really have to   worry about it um in the short term, but   it's nice to have the script in case we   want it for later.   So say   check limit size.   Okay. And I'll see you in the next one.   Okay. Chow chia.   Let's talk about plan mode. And yes, I   see those dots. I don't know where they   came from.

 I can't get rid of them, but   they're right here, right? So, those are   the two mystery dots. But anyway, so um   plan mode lets Codeex gather context,   asking clarifying questions and building   a stronger plan before implementation.   So, the idea here, sorry, this is   bothering me. I got to give it a smile   face.

 But anyway, you use the plan mode   and uh so here I'm saying to create a   Wolfenstein 3D clone game. And what   it'll do is actually ask you a series of   questions, which to me is really really   interesting. um as when you use um cloud   code it doesn't ask you questions where   this one it really tries to guide you   along the entire process and then the   end it will create uh the plan and then   it can execute that plan um and actually   I was very curious to see if it could do   Wolfenstein 3D but that's a lot of work   so maybe um I need to keep my scope a   bit smaller we can still try to do   Wolfenstein as an example but let's try   a plan mode Okay.   All right. Let's take a look at plan   mode. And I figured it'd be fun to try   to make a Wolfenstein clone. So, I'm   going to make a new folder here. Uh, as   soon as my uh terminal decides to be   responsive. I'm not sure why it's not   responsive right now. There we go. Type

  in clear. And we'll say Wolfenstein   3D clone. Okay. And obviously it's not   going to be as good as the real   Wolfenstein, but   we'll try it. So I'm going to hit shift   tab. And now we're in plan mode. Notice   we have two modes, default and shift   tab.   And hit it again. There we go. Plan   mode.

 So create a Wolfenstein   3D clone. And perfect because I just uh   went over my usage or rolling window.   So, we're back at 100%. So, that was a   60%. So, that's that's good. Um, and so   my expectation is going to ask me   questions, right? So, here it is   thinking.   Okay.   And so, I'm waiting for it to prompt   questions. So, web browser, of course.

  Yeah. Playable core, I would say. So,   yes. Original inspired custom, so avoid   direct reuse of copyright assets. I   mean, I I don't care if it uses it. Um,   say minable. Minable art for now.   Programmer art. I've never heard that   term before. Programmer art. That's   great. That just means bad art.   And um, we'll use I mean, I do like   Phaser. I knew Phaser pretty well.

 And   3GS is pretty good as well. Um, but I've   never seen it able to um, utilize   TypeScript is a good choice. Yep.   TypeScript. But I've never seen it able   to use um canvas or uh things like that   to produce it. I do feel that it   probably would require like WebGL,   right? Um and so it hasn't asked asked   me about that yet because it said it   would make it vanilla with vanilla   JavaScript.

 But if we do have the option   for WebGL, I'll probably choose it. Um   we'll say no stay in plan mode. So uh   you know say go here and   is it using WebGL   canvas? Oh it didn't ask me. So the   first time I did this it would ask me   exactly what it was but I think canvas   would be better you know. I think or   sorry yeah I think webgl   would be better as canvas may be   limited.

  Okay. So, we'll go ahead and ask it to   do that. Now, the other thing is like   does it know that it's going to follow   the actual way that Wolfenstein 3D   works? Probably not, but we will uh let   it go off to the races here and see what   it comes back with. Um,   it is it is a lot better. And so, we   have true WebGL.

 So, use textured uh   sprites uh in a real 3D scene for better   scalability. Click the keep the classic   raycasting gameplay model, but use   WebGL. And that's what I want to do is   that raycaster model. And so that's what   I wasn't sure if it was going to figure   that out. And so here we have our plan.   So build a browserbased   first person Wolfenstein game.

  Okay. And here's our implementation.   And I wanted to implement this plan. The   only thing is that um it's not like it's   going to store the file anywhere. And so   generally what I would probably want to   do is save the plan, right? And tell it   to write it into the Wolfenstein 3D   folder, but I'm just going to let it   rip. Okay.

 And I just want to see what   will happen with such a large plan. And   we're at 98%. So we got a lot of room   for this to go. And so we are going to   Let's go off to the races. I'm going to   do is just I'm going to copy this   because I don't want to lose it. I'm not   sure if plans get saved anywhere, right?   And so I just want to save this if I   can.

 The only problem is like I can't do   control C or it will kill the script. So   I'm trying to   copy this. I can't. I can't. So I'll   have to just let it run here, which is   kind of frustrating.   But we will pause here and if it if   anything pops up here and asks us to do   anything. But it does have like   checkboxes.   So clearly there is a plan file being   managed over here.

 So I'm curious if we   go here.   How how does it know that it's managing   a plan? That's what I don't know.   And so while it's going here,   because I don't remember there being   much in the docs and this again, this is   the big problem is just like lack of   documentation.   And I'm just trying to offscreen here   get another tab open.

 Chrome seems to be   slower these days. So go over chatpt.   How does plan mode in codeex remember   what tasks it has to do? And is this   saved   anywhere? And I know this is in the docs   because I specifically looked for this.   Um I know that claude will save things   in a plans here.   It says it doesn't remember tasks.   Some workflows explicitly store it.

  Uhhuh.   Stuff is in the sessions data. It's very   very useless what it's telling me. Very   very useless information. Um and so   probably   what I would have pro preferred to do is   say instead of creating this plan, write   it to a file, make a task because like   how's it going to keep track of this   stuff? But it seems to know that it has   an internal checklist.

 But where that's   stored, I don't know.   Um, we could go into our sessions here.   Not memories, but sessions.   04. I'm just like trying to check this   while it's running. Okay.   Oh, I don't even know what the latest   one is.   Well, how do we know?   Um, it's this last one right here. And   so I'm just going to go ahead and just   say like code enter because I'm just   curious what like what the contents of   this file is.

  And so what I'm looking for in here   as I was trying to find if uh like it   was maintaining some kind of list.   Again, this is still working. This is a   big task. We gave it a really really   large job to do. Um, and so another   thing I want to check   is maybe the the SQL light file because   I want to see like how's it managing   that information again.

 Maybe it's just   handling in context. And so we made a a   cheat sheet somewhere here. I think it's   in our hello world. No, it's in our   tic-tac-toe. Here we go. Um,   and here I'd like to see like what   tables there are.   So I would say esco light   state five   and we can just enter it actually here   and then we can Nope, it didn't do that.

  So we'll go ahead and I'll just uh Oh,   maybe because I forgot the three on it.   There we go. And so now I can just type   commands like tables.   And so here we have agent jobs.   So I might do um   uh how do we check the schema again?   Schema. So schema jobs,   right? Jobs.   I would think those are background jobs,   right? And then there could be like   agent jobs here. Let's take a look here.

  Agent jobs.   Okay. And again, this is still running   in the background. Oh, hold on. Do you   want us to allow installing all the   dependencies? Yes.   Yes. Don't ask me again. You can go   ahead and do that. Um,   and so   see like select   all from agent jobs. Let's try this.   There's no data in there.

 Select all   from jobs. All we're trying to do is   seeing like is it queuing up any   information anywhere? And so I don't   think so.   Agent job items.   Okay. and we'll go back over to here.   And so I guess we just got to keep an   eye on it and when it shows something,   do something. Here we're already at 88%.   So we're using quite a bit.

 I'm going to   pause here uh just so you're not   watching forever. Okay, we are back   and it literally checked off a list.   Couldn't find that state information   anywhere. Um and it says it's   implemented something. So I'm curious.   Um and we will go and make a new tab   here. I'm going to CD into our   Wolfenstein directory.

 I'll do it mpm   install.   One thing I am going to do because I'm   not sure if it um added that file.   Yeah, there's no git ignore here. Say   get ignore because I really don't want   um the node packages or node modules   otherwise that's going to add way too   many files for us to manage. Okay. And   I'm going to do mpm install   mpm rundev.

  And so that's open. We'll open that in   our browser.   Look at that.   Wow.   Okay. And the reason why this is a wow   for me.   Oh,   this did not work last year.   This is incredible. This for me. This is   incredible because I I swear to you it   could not handle the the logic for this.   Okay. And I'm able to fire shots.

 This   is so cool.   Uh I'm definitely going to make a   Wolfenstein game that nobody needs.   Okay. So   Oh, there we go. There we go. It's   defeated. Great. So yeah, we can now   make Wolfenstein 3D. I'm curious like   what the code looks like.   Uh you might not care about the code,   but like here, yeah, we got WebGL.   Yeah, it looks fine.

  Okay, so just it's literally rendering   the vertices.   Yeah, that's fine. Yeah, it uses ray   casting. So there we go. We now have a   Wolfenstein clone. We know how plan   works. Um and I'll see you in the next   one. Okay, chow chia.   So a sandbox is a security mechanism for   separating running programs from your   OS.

 And a sandbox provides tightly   controlled set of resources for guest   programs to run in a storage and memory   scratch space, limited network access,   the ability to inspect the host system,   uh disallow or heavily restrict reading   from input devices, and codec. Codec   specifically relies on sandbox   libraries. This is the same as how   claude works.

 And so there's one called   bubble wrap and then there's one called   seat belt. You'll notice there isn't one   for Windows as I don't know, they just   don't list it. Maybe Windows already has   sandbox built into it. But generally if   you're going to use Windows, you should   be really using WSL 2. Um because really   sandbox is about controlling like bash   commands and that's running Linux.

 So   generally that's why I think these   things are focused on um Linux or Linux-   like environments. Okay. Uh but anyway   for codeex we have the sandbox which   defines the technical boundaries and an   approval policy which decides when   codeex must stop and ask if it can do   something.

 So the idea here is that we   have a set of sandbox options. There are   some things in here that are not   necessarily sandbox but they are   definitely related. So you probably   would want to know about them. The first   are your approval policies. So we have   untrusted on request and never. So um   there's that.

 Then we actually have our   sandbox mode. So we have read only   workspace write and danger full access.   So workspace write basically means it   can more the time more or less edit but   it's going to rely on the approval   policy to determine you know when it's   allowed to do things. Um you can set up   very sand sandbox specific um settings.

  So you have workspace, right? But you   might say, "Oh, I don't want that to   have network access or not allow login   with shell or disable web search,   right?" And those are things that are   associated with a um a sandbox   environments which you might want to   lock down. You can also have OS specific   settings.

 So you might say, well, for   Windows, we'll have sandbox elevated. I   could not find where this option was.   The uh sandbox elevated. It is in the   documentation, but they will not tell me   anywhere where it is. and I'm noticing   inconsistencies with the docs versus   what I'm doing. So, understand that I'm   not trying to mislead you.

 I literally   cannot find the backing information. And   Codex cannot find it, but I leave it in   here because it might exist and you   might come across it later. Um, Codeex   recommends to run in either workspace   write and ask for approval on request or   readon. So, there are those two options   probably the first one if you need to.

  Um, so just consider that if you're   working WSL, you're basically working in   a virtual environment. So you do have   some safeguards already in place, but   you may want to run a sandbox as well.   There's also this option to check um you   know the commands and see if they work.   So here they go sandbox Mac OS and you   do the command and either will work or   won't and we can log the denials.

  There's no documentation on how to use   this and so I don't really have a use   case to test it so it's not really a big   deal for me. You can also add uh very   specific red directories that it's   allowed to read from. Um but yeah, there   you go. That's sandboxes.   Hey folks, it's Andrew and in this video   I want to take a look at um sandbox   features.

 And so the idea here is that   we should be able to um Whoops. If I   type here just a moment. Type type type.   There we go. Uh we should be able to um   launch Codeex with the sandbox. Now you   probably need to have bubble wrap um   already installed. And so I would   imagine the instructions would tell us   that.

 Um I I didn't notice that it would   prompt us for it. In fact, I might   already have bubble wrap installed. So   I'm just going to look for the command   to install it. Um so I'm going to go   here. Bubble wrap install WSL WSL.   That's what I'm on. It'll be the same   thing for anything else.   So I'm just looking for   the uh the install.

 It might it might   actually already be installed now that I   think about it. I never installed bubble   wrap. I think it's already there. So,   I'm going to go ahead and I'm just going   to start sandbox here. So, we'll say   sandbox and what was it suggesting   sandbox uh read only and then we'll say   ask for approval   and we'll put here on request.

 Okay, so   that was its recommended method of   turning on sandbox. And here we are now   running in a sandbox. It doesn't   indicate that we're in a sandbox, but I   want to see if we can actually edit a   file because if we are in readon mode,   um we should not be able to edit one or   I guess we'll see anyway.

 So, um we'll   go here and it's like, can you change   the TypeScript code   uh code to JavaScript? And right now we   are in the Wolfenstein project, which by   the way works.   And I want to see if it will actually   try to write it and get blocked.   Okay.   And so we are waiting to see what it   does.   So I'm hoping that it'll just say, hey,   I can't do that because we said readon   mode.

  But that just means that the sandbox   couldn't do it and then it would go out   beyond the boundary and then ask. And so   maybe um it will on on request ask or   maybe we will have to set it to   something very strict like uh you know   untrusted.   Okay. And so we're just carefully   watching to see what it's going to do.

  Carefully. Carefully.   And so I'll edit that now. So, it's   saying it's going to edit it.   It's really taking a long time to get to   editing. I'm not really sure as to why.   Maybe I should have asked it to do   something simpler like edit the hello   world.   But, um, yeah, maybe this task was a   little bit too large for it.

 But, I'm   going to just pause here and wait and   see what happens. This is taking a   considerable amount of time, so I'm   going to stop it. And maybe this task is   too large for it. And I'm going to go to   our hello world where we literally have   a single file. And I'm going to start   back up um the sandbox mode.

 And   actually, I'm going to be really   aggressive here. I'm actually going to   set it to untrusted. And so that means   that what it will do is like it really   it really requires approval to do   anything. Okay. I'm going to say can you   port the at sign hello world.rb RB to uh   Python   and I want to see if it will complain   and not do it.

  So there's nothing inherently dangerous   that it's doing here.   And so here it's edited it. And so I say   like why didn't   say escape? Why were you able to edit   the file? I set sandbox mode to um   readon and approval to untrusted. And I   mean like this is a very like low   lowrisk action.

 So it might be hard for   us to trigger the sandbox.   Okay. And so we'll go ahead here and say   yes.   Oh, it says I wasn't able to edit it.   Uh, it's it's not present in the   workspace. So, the file was written   call. So, read only plus untrusted   clearly block normal shell rights unless   I requested escalation. I used apply   patch which is a separate editing tool   for the shell commands.

 This tool can   still be invoked by the agent and when   shells rights are restricted, it   actually succeeds on the harness   runtime. In this case, it did not   complete and your interruption prevented   any from landing. I was I was able to   edit but not actually perform one. So if   you want I continue. So okay attempt   attempt to edit the file   actually edit it. Okay.

 And so maybe   it's just printing out here. It   literally cannot edit. And so we'll go   ahead and we'll say uh would you like to   make the following edits? So it's   actually asking me and we'll say yes. So   it actually had to go ask for approval   and so now was able to do it. So it   seems like it seems like that if it's   here, it still had to reach unass.

 So   it's not an immediate denial, but it did   have to explicitly ask for that change.   And so I do believe that sandbox mode is   working as expected. Um, we could also   try to disable like web search. I'm   going to make a new file which will be   our uh config toml.   Okay. And this needs to be in   uh wherever we launch this up.

 So right   now we are over here. So I'm going to go   over to this file here. I'm going to   make a new folder called codeex.codeex.   Well, I'll get rid of this. I don't know   why they do that because then I have to   delete it. And then make a folder,   right?   I don't know the logic there. It doesn't   make any sense.

 And then we will drag in   the config toml. And then now that we   have it, we'll go ahead and we'll try to   say um web search. Whoops. Web search   disabled.   I'm going to do double quotations here.   Um, approval   policy   untrusted. So, it still will have to ask   us, which is fine.   Read   only.   This will be uh   sandbox   mode   read only.   Okay.

 And so we go ahead and we'll save   that. I'm going to stop this. Clear   this. I'm going just type in codeex. And   so now I'm expecting not to be able to   go to the internet. So I'm going to say,   can you fetch me   the weather from the internet?   for uh Calgary.   I can't access the internet so I can't   fetch it.

 If you want I can do a a local   command or if you want I can do that. So   uh you know try the curl.   Let's see what happens.   The shell and whether to see this is   possible. So now it's asking for   approval. And so you see that we we can   Oh, here it says failed here because the   environment has no working DNS network   access, right? Because we've denied it   network access.

 Um I wonder if we turned   that on if that would work. So we might   go here say network access equals true.   Okay, I'm just going to stop this. I'm   going to continue on the conversation   from that we just had here   and we'll say uh I turned   on network access.   Try again. Okay. And it's going to go   out there.   Let's see if that helps it.

 It still   might not be able to resolve it.   Okay. And we'll say yes. See what   happens. I'm terrible at networking. So   there we go. And so you can see it.   Notice it was off by uh off by false. So   the sandbox probably restricted the   network access as that's what it's   supposed to do. And here we're   explicitly turning it back on.

 Um and so   there you go. That is sandbox and   approvals in a nutshell. Okay, cha chia.   Okay, so we have permissions which lets   you change your permission levels and we   have default which is the current and   full access. What's confusing here is   that um and I didn't mention this in the   sandbox video, but you always have a   sandbox mode set.

 Whereas with claude,   we're talking about Codex right now, but   with claude, you have to explicitly turn   it on. Whereas um Codeex, you're always   in some kind of sandbox mode. Uh and   then you have approval policies with the   sandbox mode that can replicate this.   But for some reason, they have this   override level with permissions where   you can switch from default to full   access.

 What's even more confusing is   that in the docs it actually says readon   and auto mode which clearly that is not   the language used here but in this in   the CLI we have hyphen full auto. So   it's very very confusing. My my logic   here is that this is just an easy way to   override the mode while you're in um the   CLI and it's an option and it's going to   get more confusing when we look at   dangerously bypass approvals which we   will look at next. Okay.

  Okay, so let's take a look at   dangerously bypass approvals. And the   idea here is that you can dangerously   bypass stuff. Why would you want to do   this? Well, if you are running in an   automated system and you know exactly   the impact of running uh without regard   of having to get any approval, then   that's totally fine.

 So people that run   autonomous agents that are going out to   the internet and doing stuff um you know   they're running this mode, right?   They're not asking for any approval. But   um it's a bit confusing because it seems   like there are two modes. We have ask   for approval never or a never or   dangerously bypass approvals and sandbox   which sound like the exact same thing   and probably are the exact same thing.

  Um I'm probably not going to make a lab   on this to show it as I just don't have   a use case to ever bypass stuff. Um if   we were making automous agents then sure   maybe. Um but we're probably not going   to do that here. I just want to show you   that it's like this and it's similar to   Claude.

 Um and permissions is confusing   because we have this permissions uh   sandboxes with approvals, right? And how   they intermix not clear by the clear by   the docs and not even clear when you're   working with it directly. So, you know,   just do your best to manage your   permissions. Okay,   let's take a look here at codeex rules.   So, rules control what commands can run   outside the sandbox.

 And so, here's an   example of a rule. Uh and so the idea   here is you have let's say a prefix rule   and so it's going to check if the prefix   uh that the thing that's operating like   you know is it uh GH or a PR or a view   what decisions being made what   justification what does it match what   does it not match um and so yeah if you   know claude code um this is kind of   similar to kind of similar to their uh   permissions um uh like their allow and   uh deny and ask permissions   Um, and rules have nothing to do with   cloud rules. That's something completely   different. Um, but yeah, we'll take a   look here at codeex rules. Okay.   All right, folks. What we're going to do   in this video is test out rules. I'm   going to go back a directory and we'll   say make directory rules test. And in   here, I'm going to cd into that   directory. And I need some kind of very   simple web app to test it. So, I'm going

  to go ahead here and type in codeex.   Okay. I'm going to say using Sinatra   create a couple of endpoints that I can   test using curl. Okay, I have Ruby   installed on my system. If you're on   Ubuntu or whatever, you'll need to have   that installed or you'll have to prompt   and say, "Hey, can you make me a Docker   file to run it?" Um, the other thing   that you could do is, you know, just use   a language that will work for you.

 But   basically, just ask for a micro   framework um to have some endpoints.   That's all we're doing. So, I'm just   using what I'm familiar with. And so it   should just take a moment for it to   install.   Mhm. Okay. I'm going to give this a nice   refresh   and we'll go over to our rules test   here.

 So now we have a very very simple   application, right? Um and so   uh allow installing gem so can boot and   verify the curl. So yeah, sure. Of   course. Um, I don't need it to curl   right away, but um, I wanted to make a   read me, so there's some curls that we   can test. Okay,   we'll give it a moment here to get set   up.

 All right, and here it wants to   start the application up. I don't need   it to start it up, but can you I'm going   say, can you create a readme file   file uh, markdown file   with some test curls uh, for our app?   Okay. And so all I'm doing is just so I   can run them manually. And we're going   to end up opening another tab here in   just a moment uh to make stuff uh stuff   uh sense of stuff.

  Oh, did I just close it? Oh, no. I just   closed my tab. I didn't mean to do that.   Um and so I'll go back here to codeex.   Well, sorry. We'll go back into rules   test codeex. And um I just had too many   taps. Okay. There was too much was going   on. I couldn't see what I was doing. Um,   but we'll go back over to here.

  Go back to this one. Sorry. Sorry. Uh,   please make the markdown file   with curls. I just uh interrupted by   accident.   Okay. And so that will continue on here.   All right. So, it's came back here with   our readme file. Let's go take a look at   what we have here. Okay. Okay. And so we   have   um these curls here.

 So what I'm going   to do is make a new tab. And I want to   start up the server. Um so I'll go into   rules bundle install.   And I'm not exactly sure what they want   the command to run it. Usually it's   pretty darn simple. Yeah. Okay. It's   just bundle exec Ruby. Fair enough.   We'll hit enter.   And we will   give that just a moment.

 So we have four   five six seven. Good.   Um, there's probably like a six seven   joke in there. I got I got really young   kids, like really young, and it's beyond   not being funny anymore. So, I apologize   for that. Okay, we're going over here,   and um so now we have that, and I want   to just test it with an endpoint and see   what results we get back.

 Okay, so we   get this message back uh with this.   Okay, great. And so, that's working   really, really good. Um, so what I'm   going to do is I'm going to go ahead now   and make a a new folder. Well, first   we'll get rid of the codeex folder as   this is silly. And then we will make a   new folder here calledex.   And then I'll make a new rule real rules   file which is like block curl dot um   rules. Okay.

 And we'll go back over to   here.   I think we're over here. And so uh can   you create a codeex rule um in block   to prevent curl access. Okay. And it's   pretty simple. There's like three things   we'll fill in. But if we can ask it to   do it to get initial one, then we can   check if it can even write this herself.   Yeah, it does already exist.

 That's   true. And so here it's going to go ahead   and work through that. Okay. And so here   uh there aren't any local examples to   anchor the syntax. So I'm using a simple   rule file direct.   Uh no   no this is no that's not how you do it.   So we'll go over to here. I'll go find   um the rules   wherever it is here. Codeex.

 Uh here's   the link. Codex rules. Here's the page.   It's crazy that it's just like trying to   do that. No.   Okay.   No, there is a format.   This uh codeex rules have a specific   format. Surprised it doesn't know. When   I talked to CHPT, it knew. Um and again,   we could write this out in like two   seconds.

 Um, I would just like to see if   we can leverage this stuff because you   might have a hard time writing rules and   it might help to alleviate that pain   instead of writing it by hand. But   again, I'm expecting three fields here   like pattern matches. Yeah, pattern,   match, and justification. Right. So,   we'll go ahead. We'll say yes, proceed.

  I'm not saying that's a good rule. I'm   just trying to get it to work here. And   so, let's take a look at what we have.   So, pattern curl and it's on a prefix   rule. I don't know if there's any other   kind because I didn't see any that   wasn't just prefix. So, maybe they do   not have anything else here.

 I'm pretty   thorough when I try to check the stuff,   but uh Oh, here's the language spec down   here. Let's go take a look.   And   yikes.   Okay, let's find the prefix rule. So,   yeah, that's not great. It's using   called Starlark. Oh, so it's already   using them something that pre-exists. So   the Starlark language specification.

  Oh, gross. Okay. Well, I mean, that's   what they got. So, we'll go back over to   here. And so, we have curl decision   forbidden justification. HTP access via   curl is blocked. Uh, use another   approved tool or test the helper   instead. So, here it's trying to help it   to know the context of like how it   should uh have justification for it.

 I   think they explain it here. If we go   back, they might explain a little bit   better than what I'm saying here. So, a   non-empt, sorry, a human readable reason   for the rule. Codeex may surface it in   approval prompt and uh or rejection   messages when use forbidden. Include a   recommended alternative in justification   when appropriate.

 So, there it's talking   about an alternate path. I would think   that if you didn't, you just say don't   do anything else. It's fine. Just deny   it. But here it says if it matches this,   this or this. If it doesn't match that,   that I think you could also um is match   optional.   It defaults to an empty bracket. So,   validates when it loads.

 Use these to   catch mistakes before the rule accepts.   Okay. So, I think we could just also um   undo it here.   But I guess the non match might be good   if it gets confused and it's blocking   for the wrong reason. But uh   again, I would expect it if it just has   this. That should be enough, right?   Well, we'll go ahead and we'll try this   again.

 So, um I want to go ahead and   just say, okay, so I'll stop this and   we'll start it up.   Please test uh the Sinatra app   using the curl commands   using the curl commands found in the   readme. Okay. And so it should be able   to probe it and I'm expecting that to be   blocked.   If it doesn't work, it'll probably find   a workaround.   Is reading reading the read me. Good.

  Mhm.   Come on, probe. Let's probe.   And so now it's saying failed to   connect.   The server is definitely running here.   Okay. And so,   no, no, it's running. So, I'm going to   stop this for a second and I'm going to   make a new file here. It'll be the   configtoml. I just want to make sure it   has network access.

 So, we'll say   network access equals true. And I'm   going to stop this again. We'll go back   here   and we'll go to resume.   Sorry, I I gave you network access.   Try again.   I mean, it should already have network   access, but maybe it doesn't.   No, no, it's already running.   It's already running   on host   at 4567. It already is. It already is.

  We'll see what it does here.   Okay. Okay. So, would you like So, do   you want to allow running curl outside   the sandbox so I can reach the host app?   Um, sure.   What I'm trying to figure out is like   did my rule work?   Okay. Dab is running live. I'm skipping   running four. So curl failed to connect   failed to connect failed to connect   and here it asks again   look I'm   I have implemented a rule   um and I'm just trying to uh that that   stops   implement a codeex rule and I'm trying   to test it's working so I'm expecting

  you to tell me curl uh is blocked   Um,   why aren't you doing that? Okay, so like   why aren't you doing that?   Did not actually block me from curl one   escalation was available. So inside the   sandbox curl failed, but that was a   network namespace issue, not a denial   policy per active instruction. When   important commands fail, I must retry   sandbox required escalation after that.

  So if the goal is to test the codeex   rule that forbids it, the rule needs to   prevent   escalated command from approving in this   run environment. It's still allowed. So   correct behavior was not used. So if you   want, I can help you inspect the rule.   Yes, please. So not exactly sure what it   wants.

 There's obviously sandbox   permissions. That's even an option we   didn't even come across in the docs   whatsoever. And again, this is and   that's assuming that Codex is not just   lying to us right now as it's very hard   to tell what is what. Um, but maybe you   can make a suggestion.   Uhhuh. Yeah.   And it's reading our config toml. Cool.

  So what what do we do here? Codex. We'll   give it a moment. All right. So we are   back. So it says the rule is not taking   effect because it's in the wrong place.   The docex toml contains network access   true that enables access but does not   enforce the rules file. Um,   so your custom rule ex Oh, is it not in   the rules folder? Oh, that's why   I didn't notice it's because I've done   this more than once and so I wasn't   paying attention.

 I thought I had   created it, folks. I I I make like the   videos three or four times over. That's   my problem. Okay. Uh, so now it's over   here. Your curl wasn't blocked. Um, so   that was the one thing we had to change.   And after that, we'll test with a plain   one. So um   okay so okay we'll just go out of here   and we will go back here and we'll say   resume   okay uh you know please   okay so I fixed the place of the rule   please try again   did not even notice I did not put in the   right   I don't know why it doesn't just   remember what it's ran, but here it's   attempting.   So, codeex allowed the curl to execute.   The command failed to the runtime. If   the rule were active, it would have   prevented it. Yeah, I know, right? So,   the result is your rule is still not   being forced. Most likely, the session

  uh needs to be restarted, which I did   do. The rule file name or directory is   still not correct. Couldn't it just   check that? Uh the the rule pattern is   not matching. if you want. Yeah, please   inspect and please debug   and check. I don't know why this is so   darn hard. I mean, that's where they say   to put it in the rules folder.

  The only thing I can see here is they   say default.ruules, but they're saying   create a rules file in this directory.   And that's where it is.   Okay.   The docs definitely say it's project   based. So, it's double checking. I have   I have enough local evidence. Uh,   the rule is not being read. I'm checking   the official stuff.

 Good luck checking   it. The rule is still not active. Your   current file is here. The official rules   say to create this and that and then do   this. In this session, the only active   rules I can see are the loaded global   rules path   over here.   So, created rules in the etc. Restart   it. So inference   is in the wrong local location.

 If you   want a project local rule, you put it   here. What are you talking about? We're   right in it.   Move the file to here.   Uhhuh. Let me just stop here. Where are   we?   Well, what? It's where it's supposed to   be.   Um, all I can think of is move it here.   But this is this is bizarre because we   should get it to work in projects,   right? If you want a project rule   Oh. Dot for/codex.

  Oh, it's just a folder called codeex.   Well, well, how did that what?   Okay, hold on here a second. Hold on.   Hold on. Hold on one second.   Am I to believe that the folder's name   is Codeex and notcodex? How did this   work earlier then? cuz this definitely   worked when we when we set all these   settings.

 So, how did it load that if   that was the case?   I mean, it definitely is saying. So,   this one's codeex and this one's just   codeex. What the heck? But if we go over   to config files, let's go over to   here.codeex   in   project overrides.   That is crazy. Okay, let's go over to   here.   That is so confusing.   Oops. Uh, not over here. Not over here.

  Um,   and we'll go over to here. We'll make a   new folder. Codeex.   When they say they're vibe coding these   these harnesses, I totally believe it.   So, now it's over here. We'll type in   clear. I'm going to go ahead and run   Codex again.   And then we will   resume   try curls again. I made a new codec   folder.   Seriously,   why why have two folders with one dot   and one knot?   Codeex allowed the command to execute   only failed at runtime.

 If the rules   were active, it would have stopped   before. I'm not crazy.   Okay, I'm showing you I'm not crazy. If   we go back over to here, codeex folder   or over here. So, the next thing I'm   going to do is I'm going to rename this   to defaults.   Okay, we'll just try a completely new   session.   And I'm going to be very specific.

 I'm   going to take this command here.   Just this one here.   Run this command.   That's it.   Okay. So, anyway, I'm not exactly sure   how we're supposed to get this rule to   work. Um, but the point is, you can see   that it is very, very difficult. Um, I   don't know to tell you, it doesn't   really work as expected.

 Uh, I'm not   crazy and it can't figure it out itself.   Um, but we're also kind of fighting with   the fact that here it doesn't have   network access, and we did open it up,   so that'd be less of an issue. I suppose   the only thing we could do is we could   try to like get rid of the rule, even   though it shouldn't be even loading   anyway.

 So, I'm just going to go ahead   here. I want to just focus on   ignore this for now. Say ignore codecs.   I'm just going to go ahead here and say   um   yeah, you I have I have on my host   machine. Let's just make sure this is   working, right? Yeah.   So, I have on my host machine uh a   server running.   This endpoint works.   Uh what do you need to be able to do to   hit this endpoint?   Let's see if let's just rule that out   first. Okay.

  So here it says local host inside my   sandbox session and not your host   machine. So uh does not mean I could uh   I'm a does not mean I I can reach it. Um   expose the server on the address   environment.   give it a reachable host address or   typical ways is to bind on port 00.   We'll go over to here.

 We'll bind on   port 00. That's a good idea. B 0.0.0.0.   Fair enough. I'm terrible at networking   folks. I'm not a networking engineer.   Okay. The networking folks here are   probably like, Andrew, you're dumb. And   I'm like, yes, I am dumb. I don't know   how to network. And it's already binding   to port zero. It's already set for that.

  Okay. So, we'll go ahead and run this   again.   Come on. There we go. It's already on   port 00.   Well, what are those curls going to?   What the heck?   Um, it runs on port 000000.   Maybe the curls are wrong.   The server is listening on all   interfaces. So for me, I still need an   actual reachable address   uh from this workspace.

 The blocker I do   not know exactly all you want me to I I   don't know. I don't know sandboxes well   enough. How like how do how do you   network   uh codeex   sandbox to this   me? No network knowledge. Okay. Like I   don't I don't know what you want from   me. I want I don't want to read a   thousand paragraphs here.

 You don't need   a network on a codeex uh code box   codeex. Keep your server listening here.   Find the host machine IP address and   instead of that do that why this doesn't   work from this that points to local   environment not your host. Yeah, of   course. Sure. Fine. Fine. We'll do that.   That seems really silly though.

 Well, I   mean can't you run IP config and find   out like why am I doing this?   And can't you work outside the boundary   to find out?   Uh-huh.   Uh-huh.   Okay. So, yeah, but you you are in a   sandbox. Can't you just go outside of   sandbox and find out?   Mhm.   You could have just asked me for   approval before.   Here we go.

  No, you are stop. You are running in WSL   and this server is in WSL.   If the server is running WSL then the   address is just this. Okay. The real   issue is not Windows WSL is the codec   session shares the same network name   space. So if Codex is using WSL it will   work. If Codex is in an isolate sandbox   I can do that.

 So what I need to do is   is it's not a different IP. I need   permission to test uh from the from here   the outside because this will tell me   immediately whether the session's there.   Okay. Well then then ask permission   please.   Look how confused it got because it   doesn't know anything about itself,   right? So, I'm requesting say yes.

  There we go. Now works great.   So, the answer is I need permission to   run the network in your setup.   Okay. So, now the next thing is   I'm going to   rename this.   Put this like this.   Okay, we'll stop this. We'll try this   again.   Okay, please run this curl command. You   have uh ask me my permission so you can   run outside your sandbox.

 This uh is a   Sinatra server running on WSL and you   are in WSL. So you are on the same   network. Okay. So we'll go ahead and   just help it know a little bit more.   Mhm. And so we'll say yes.   And it succeeded. Great. I have a rule   in codeex   um defaults rule and you did not uh have   to   you were not prevented by it.   Okay.

  Well, rules.   Rules.   Mhm. There we go. Yeah.   The rule exists but doesn't apply to the   path.   Oh my goodness. This is not smart. Okay,   but like No, it it's right here, right?   It is called   It's called rules   and people complain about cloud being   dumb. This is so stupid.   Like, see how it got hung up on that one   s there.

  The rule did not stop me because the   command was executed through tool level   escalation flow and I explicitly   requested approval in the session the   active execution. Okay, so the point is   is that rules are a pain in the butt.   I'm not exactly sure on how to best   invoke them. Um, they suck. Sorry folks.

  Um, but it seems like maybe it's talking   about what it can do within a within a   sandbox. Um, and you would think that if   you give it permission to curl and it   would run into a forbidden or stuff like   this, then it would take effect. But I   can't just get I can't just gonna get   this to work no matter what.

 So at least   we know how the rules are defined. If   you figure it out, you tell me. I'd love   to know and everyone would love to help.   But there we go. Okay.   Okay. So for codeex, it has a   configuration file that comes in the   form of a toml. So it's literally   config.toml.   And this can be in uh more than one   location.

 Um there either there is   either the global scope location uh   where it sits in your home directory   with codeex. Okay. And then uh there's   the option where it's within your   project and it's just a config.tml.   Um and so those are the two locations   that it can exist. We will double check   triple check the uh project   configuration file as I'm finding that   codeex's conventions for naming stuff   and placing them is not consistent.

  Let's take a look at some of the things   that we can set. There's a lot of   options. So, we won't go through all of   it, but here you can see we can set what   model should be used. Um, specify the   model catalog based on its JSON. Uh, you   know, set the sandbox mode, whether we   can do web search and if it's caching or   turned off or if it's live, set its   personality, set the reasoning effort,   sandbox information.

 Um, but most of the   most of the time you're going to be   going in here to u meddle with your   sandbox information. But there again,   there's a lot of options, but we'll   cover what is relevant because there's a   lot that isn't. Okay.   Hey, it's Andrew and this video we're   going to take a look at um adding a   configuration file.

 We've probably done   this before um but let's just make sure   that we absolutely know how to do it.   Um, and so what I'm going to do is maybe   go into our hello world, which we   actually already have a TOML file.   What's interesting here is that I have   it in a docex folder called config. But   I think when we go back to our um docs,   it was saying it could sit there in the   in the directory directly.

 And just   there's so many places that it can load.   So let me just go double check here so   that we can uh take a look here. It says   codeex config toml and then one there at   that level. Okay. So, what we're going   to do, even though we already have one,   I'm going to make a new new folder here.   And this will just be called um   uh   simple math. Simple math.

 Something   simple here. And so, I'm going to CD   into simple math.   Simple math.   Oh boy, that is a folder. Come on, let   me in. Simple math.   Oh, it's an underscore. That's why.   And now that we're there, I want to go   ahead and we'll go make a new folder   here called codeex. And then we'll make   a new config toml file.

 And what I want   to do here is just change which model is   being utilized. So I can't remember what   models are available to us. So I'm just   going to go ahead and type in codeex and   we will see what models that we can use.   So here right right now we're on the GPT   5.4. I'm going to type in model   and we have uh four mini.

 So, I'm going   to go up here   and we'll say GPT   5 4 5 5.4   mini. I'm going to match it based on   what it says there. I'm going to save   that file. Close this out. Clear. Type   in codeex. And all I want to see is does   it load that model in. And so there it   goes. It loaded it in. That's as simple   as it is.

 Um, you know, that's all I   really wanted to know is to make sure   that you know how to set it and where to   set it. Um but yeah, there you go.   Okay, let's talk about non-interactive   mode. So, Codeex has a non-interactive   mode, also known as headless mode.   That's what Claude calls calls there.   So, I'm just trying to u normalize that   information across providers here.

 Um,   but it allows you to execute requests   without entering into interactive   terminal. And so, here is a bunch of   examples. Let's walk through them. I'll   get my pen tool out here so I can point   to the ones that we're on. But the first   is just use codec codeex execute and you   just provide it a prompt and it will   execute.

 We have the ability to pipe   things. So here we are piping out. We   can pipe into pipe out of with codeex.   Uh we can set uh a firml so it will   instantly forget. It's not going to   create a session or continue on. We can   set the permission level. So here we   have full auto mode. We can set the   sandbox which we cover in the sandbox   section.

 We can uh ask it to output JSON   here explicitly and then you can pass it   to JQ and do something interesting. We   could pass our codeex API key. So u we   are not utilizing our subscription um or   if we just have different keys and we   want to uh leverage multiple keys at the   same time. We can resume a previous   conversation.

 A very common use case for   non-interactive mode would be GitHub   actions. Uh so here you can see we're   installing codeex and then running it.   um and then running it here with very   specific settings. Technically with   GitHub actions, there is a very specific   um uh GitHub action for codec. So when   we do the GitHub action sections, if I   make a video on that, um we'll probably   use the action instead of that.

 But if   you need full control within any   environment, if you're not even using   GitHub actions, you're going to be uh   using this mode. Okay.   Okay. Okay, let's take a look here at um   the non-interactive mode. So um I don't   think it really matters what repo we're   in, but I'm going to go ahead and maybe   we'll go into our hello world as that is   a very simple application uh and a great   place to check.

 I'm just going to go   ahead and sync whatever I have here. But   we'll go ahead and try it. So we already   have Codex installed. So I'm going to   try codeex exec and I'll just increase   the font here so you can see what is   going on. And sometimes it helps to do   this. So, I can move this over and we'll   just say uh tell me what is in this repo   or this project folder.

  Okay, let's see what we get back and if   it works.   Okay, and   I'm not sure what the issue is, but it's   possible that I haven't logged in a   while. So, whoops. Oops. Oops. Oops.   Oops. Oops. Actually was working. We'll   we'll try that one more time. It was   strange because it's showing error. So,   tell me what's in this folder. error.

  Snapshot or validation failed. Snapshot   command exited. I don't know why it's   complaining,   but it's working.   It's doing something.   That was a little bit confusing there,   that initial one. So, at a glance, this   is the minimal project. So, it it   definitely works. I don't know why we   get that initial error, which is very,   very confusing.

 Let's go up here, and   I'm going to just say uh JSON.   We'll say JSON as they say we can do   this as for me tell me the project um   provide a JSON uh JSON structured report   back   and uh for fun we will also pipe this   over into jq and do period and so we   will hold on   and what's interesting is like it's   going to stream the information and so   we're getting back JSON and we're   getting it formatted.

 So here we can see   the information back. It seems like it   streams everything back, not just um not   just the uh the single command there.   That first one's kind of strange. It's   kind some kind of error that doesn't   seem to matter. Shell snapshot   validation failed. So it does that   doesn't matter. But here we're getting   back all the input and it's showing us   every single step.

 So this is really   interesting. I thought it would just   come back with the final results, but   literally every single step that it's   streaming out is coming back. That is   really, really cool. because that's   going to give us a lot of flexibility in   terms of how to work with stuff. Also,   it tells us exactly how it works.

 So,   you can see turn.completed   um you know other item completed stuff   like that. And um it might not seem   obvious here because we don't really   cover in the course but like I have   another course called claude architect   um foundations and when you know the   internals here uh you know if you have   to build more complex systems it helps   you uh understand how to work with it   but we don't cover that here because we   are just learning how to use utilize   this for our usage not necessarily build   complex things. Um is there anything   else that we might want to test? I mean   those are the two most common use cases.   Um, we might want to resume a   conversation from prior. So, I'm going   to go here and just type in codeex.   We'll type claude, of course. And we'll   type in resume. And I just want to see   what else there was here. So, here we   have, can you fetch the weather from   Calgary? I don't know if we have to type   this exactly. And so, I'm going to just   copy this here. Just that there. And I'm   just going to quit out of this. We'll   say codeex exec

  um   last. So we'll say resume   last. I think last means   resume the last session.   Okay.   Oh, we we restricted this machine quite   thoroughly. So that's why it's not going   to be able to pull it as under our hello   world. At some other point we um we were   really aggressive with this   configuration tumml and that's why we   are not able uh to do that.

  So it still works. And so I think last   just means continue the last   conversation, not B because over here it   looks like okay, type in the name. And   so that's how you know which one to   resume, but really it's just resuming   the last one. Okay. Could you do other   stuff with that? I'm not sure.

 Um, let's   take a look here. Codeex exec help.   There's more information.   And   because the docs aren't always up to   date, right? And so it might just be   here. So here it says provide a the a   previous session or ID or pick from the   most recent one. So here we can provide   the session ID I suppose.   Um so if we were just to go here and not   put last   try this let's stick this out of here.

  Do we get to choose?   No it doesn't. And so that's not clear.   Right. So it's saying like we get to   choose. Obviously we don't get to   choose. Uh, we got some uh colors here.   I'm just see if there's anything else we   miss. Tell it to use it in a very   specific directory.   Um, I mean that could be really useful   because maybe you're not running it   where you actually are.

 So you might   want to do that. Change the model. Yeah.   So there's obviously more options here,   but of course the man helps us out. The   examples I showed here was from the   docs. So you can see the docs don't   always match. Uh well technically this   is documentation just in another way. So   just always make sure to check   everything but there you go. Okay.

  So with OpenAI we can interact with it   on uh different uh layers or levels if   you will. Um and this is important to   know because some things will only be uh   available at certain levels. And so the   the lowest level is going to be the open   AI rest API. Um and so what's   interesting here is that OpenAI does not   have a generic um library.

 Um so for   example, if you're using uh Anthropic   Claw, they literally have a library   called the Anthropic SDK, which is   specifically just a wrapper for uh their   API. Um there's probably some third   party ones out there, but I mean it's   not hard to work with it directly. So   here's just an example of using uh   JavaScript to interact with it.

 Um, but   yeah, we'll just make sure that we   understand the layers is there's more   layers that are abstracted with OpenAI   versus Claude and that was just the   choice that OpenAI went with for   whatever reason. Okay.   Hey folks, it's Andrew and in this video   we are going to learn how to um interact   with the Open AI uh REST API.

 So I'm   going to make a new folder here. We'll   call it OpenAI REST. Um and we will cd   back a directory and we'll go to open AI   rest and we'll type in codeex and we   just want to do a simple uh action. So I   want to demonstrate uh using the open AI   rest um   directly. So can we do that using let's   say Ruby? I really like Ruby.

 So we'll   go ahead and do that. um just create a   simple Ruby script,   you know, using HTTP party, I guess. Um   and all HTTP party is is just a way to   send out a query. Um so every language   has one. I don't know what the other   ones are called, but it's just basically   a way of invoking it. We can also make a   curl command as well, uh to test it.

 But   we'll go ahead here and take a look at   what appears. But as far as I'm aware   of, I mean, there's probably an   unofficial library, but there's no   official library, per se. So, we will um   see what we have here. And I'm hoping   I'm in the right directory. When I was   generating this set, I wasn't paying   attention.

 So,   where did it Oh, no. It put in the right   directory. So, here it is. It's going to   bring in that open API key. And here,   it's going to do responses. It's going   to use mini, and it will take an input.   So, write one sentence about why direct   REST APIs are useful. So that is fine.   And so I'm going to need an API key   here.

 So what I'm going to do is stop   this here. I know how to run this. It's   pretty darn easy. So we will um do a   bundle install.   Okay, I'll just make the instructions   here.   Okay, we got bundle install.   And then once that's installed, we can   run this. It'll just be bundle   bundle exec   ruby open aai rest.rb.   So that's what we will need to execute   it. So I just go need to go get a key.

  So I'm going to go find one. We'll just   type in open AI developers. I'm just   doing this offscreen so you cannot see   what I'm doing just yet. And I'm over   here. I'm going to get a new key. And   we'll go ahead and this one is from a   day before. So we'll revoke that key.   And I will create myself a new key.

 This   will be test REST   API. And I'm going to go ahead and   create that key. We will copy that key.   And now I need to set it. So this is   going to be uh export open AI   uh API. So OpenAI API key equals and   then we'll paste it in. We'll hit enter.   And so now let's go ahead and see if we   can run this and invoke it.

  And you know the main thing here is that   there's more models than what codeex is   using right so there are image models   there's all sorts of models and so if we   want to have access to it we'd basically   be having to use this API are useful   because they engage oh so they're just   here is the prompt so it came right back   here and so I can go back over to here   and we will just change this to say um   say you know give me uh studying uh give   me a bulleted list   of studying tips to pass the JPT N5.

  Okay, I just took the N4 in December and   I failed it and so I I need all the tips   I can I can use here to pass. Okay, so   we're going to go ahead and wait for it   to generate out and so it comes back. So   here is a bulleted list, learn hiragana,   build a basic vocabulary, etc., etc. So   it works.

 Um, and that's all I really   wanted to show you. Maybe we can convert   this into a curl. So I'll go ahead and   just say, "Hey,   can you create a curl command uh from my   open rest uh code?"   Okay. And we'll just wait for it to   generate that out.   Should be able to do it. We're still   using the intelligent model. Not we're   not I mean Mini is fine as well, but we   are using the one that's appropriate.

  And so here we have   So, we have equivalent. If you want it   to behave more like Ruby script, I don't   care about that, but we'll go ahead and   grab this here. I'll make a   one here. So, we'll go down here. I'll   just paste it in.   And so, in theory, this should just   work. So, go ahead and hit enter.   And we're just hanging out here.

  And nothing's happening. Oh, there we   go. It's back. Okay. And so there is our   response because it's not streaming,   right? So it's probably happening that   entire time. And there you go. We just   learned how to work with the REST API.   Hey, this is Andrew. And so in this   video, in the open rest one, we ended up   implementing um the REST API directly.

 I   forgot that they actually do have a SDK   called Open AI. I guess I got confused   because there's OpenAI agents codecs and   it's been a while since I directly used   it and so I did not realize I thought   the uh SDK agents was what I was using   before but there actually is um just one   that wraps the uh REST API and so we   should go ahead and use that one.

 So I'm   going to go ahead here and just say um I   mean we did open a arrest but we'll say   MKDir uh   uh open AI SDK here and we'll go into   here.   Yeah, you can't remember everything   here, folks. It's just there's too much   going on. And so I'll go ahead and go   enter in this and I'll just say using   the official Open AI SDK, I would like   to demonstrate uh calling   uh a model like image generation.

  Okay. And now I think about it, this is   the primary way that um I was working   with with it before. But   uh obviously like if you use agents,   it's going to be way easier to build out   uh agent agent interactions like tools   and things like that. Whereas with this   one, you'll have to do a lot of the work   uh passing things along.

 But we will go   ahead and and get this generated out   here. Um I made a new folder here   over to here. Hopefully I seed into that   correct directory. Okay, I kind of   forget if I did or not, but we will give   it a moment to generate.   Okay, we are back. Let's take a look at   what we have generated. And so it's fine   what it is here.

 It's probably using the   TypeScript library. Um, it did add a   node module. So that was really, really   nice. And so I want to go into our   examples. MJS.   What the heck is an MJS file? I don't   know what an MJS file is. What is an MJS   file? I've never heard of an M MJS file.   It is a JavaScript source designed for   ECMA standard.

 Why did it why did it do   this of all things? Um,   OpenAI, sure.   I mean, I guess as long as it works, but   like it looks just like JavaScript   though. Um, but anyway, here we would be   generating out an image. Does it specify   what it used? GPT1. And so often the way   this works is that you import it via   OpenAI.

 It's going to be client images   generate,   right? But it's very, very low level.   So, what we'll do is we'll back out   here. And I believe I already have a   key. I'm just pulling the same key,   folks. Uh I show you in other videos, so   I'm not going to show it again. It   probably already is set here, but I'm   going to just set it again out of habit.

  And so, let's go ahead and do we'll uh   mpm install first.   MPM run start or mpm start. And let's   see if that works. that's not there.   Let's go over here and they call it   generate image. So, for some reason they   got really create creative here. So,   we'll say run generate image and we will   Whoops. We will generate out that image.

  And so, hopefully it's going to say   where it places it. If we go back over   to the code,   uh I mean it's going to export a base B   64 and we have an output file here. So,   it's generated image and so it should   drop it right in this directory. So,   we'll give it a little bit of time here   to generate. It says that it's done.

  We'll give this a refresh. Here we have   an output.   There's our image. Beautiful. What is   the size of this image?   I'm curious.   It is I just don't want to commit a very   large file to my repo here. So, I'm just   curious how large it is. Properties. It   is 1.62 megabytes. Beautiful photo. Um,   too large for my taste.

 So, we'll go   ahead and we'll delete it. But I like   it. And so there you go. That is   the OpenAI SDK.   All right. Chow chia.   Let's take a look here at OpenAI agents   SDK which allows you to build agents   using Python or TypeScript. Uh and so   here's the example of the TypeScript   one. So we are defining what an agent   is.

 uh and then we are calling it with a   name and instructions. We wait for the   results. Very straightforward. Um and   there's many uh features within the   agents SDK. So we got the agent loop,   guardrails, tool calls, MCP tool cars,   calls, sessions, human in the loop   mechanisms, tracing, real-time agents.   Um the thing that is confusing is that   there's also the codeex SDK which serves   a different purpose.

 So for whatever   reason um uh OpenAI just has separated   this out whereas when you use claude   claude has um their own claude agents   SDK and so it's like a combination of   the codeex SDK and the OpenAI agents   SDK. So I need to make it very clear of   these separate layers and then also the   fact that OpenAI does not have a   official uh REST API wrapper one.

 Okay,   so just distinguishing between that and   it gets confusing because they have   another layer which is the app server,   but we'll look at that in just a moment.   Hey folks, it's Andrew and in this video   we are going to go ahead and create a   very very simple agent. So simple agent   using the OpenAI   um   the OpenAI agents SDK.

 I'm having this   problem where sometimes   my bash terminal just becomes   unresponsive. So there's a few tricks to   that. Opening a new one here. So we will   cd into simple agent. I don't know what   hangs it up. I couldn't tell you why. Um   but we'll go ahead and type in codeex   here. And uh we'll just say using   typescript can you   create me a simple agent   using the open AI agents SDK.

 So we'll   let it go ahead and do that. I believe   it's also available in Python. Um but   open a AI agents SDK should be good   enough. And so we will just wait a   moment here.   Okay. So, it shouldn't take too long.   Okay.   All right. It seems to be back. And so,   we'll go over into our simple agent. And   we got a lot of code here.

 The only   thing that's kind of frustrating is that   it doesn't generate out a git ignore.   So, go ahead and do that. And I will   just say node modules as node modules   ends up being quite the headache for us.   But I'm going to go ahead and stop that   here. and we will go mpm install. Once   you learn a few languages, it becomes   very very easy.

 Um, and so we're going   to scroll on down here.   Okay. And we're going to take a look. So   we have simple TypeScript agent. We're   importing the agents here. Um, we're   supposed to have the open API key, which   is fine. Um,   and here   it's asking about current time and date.   And here we can specify the OpenAI   model.

 I kind of wish it defaulted to a   specific model.   Okay,   I go back here. Can you make the agent   default to uh GPT Mini?   I probably should tell it what version   of it, otherwise it's going to get it   wrong. But uh we'll just let it do that   there in a moment. And what I'm going to   do is go get go ahead and get my API   key.

 I was using this for another   project. So, I've shown you how to   generate API keys quite a few times   here. Um, I'm not going to show you   again in this video. So, go back to the   API key generation part which will show   you how to do it. Um, and here's talking   about five mini. Uh, it doesn't sound   right.   No,   it's Well, I guess we'll find out.

 Maybe   it will work. We'll see.   Okay. And so now what I'm going to do,   I'm going to go export here. Open AI   open AI API key equals this. And then um   what we will do here is run it. So we'll   say mpm run watch   or sorry mpm uh start.   That's usually the standard thing. These   are all over here in this.

 So if you go   here, npm start, it's always mpm start.   And so I'm expecting it to output time   and date here. So it says I'm an   assistant here. I give concise stuff.   Tools I can use. So current time   parallel. What would you like to do? And   so there we go. So it's responding back.   Uh which is good.

 Let's go take a look   at the source code here.   And   here you can see we have instructions.   We have our model. We have the tool, a   custom tool that we defined which is   really really cool. Um,   and the only thing is that there's no   continuous loop here. So, we go down   below, introduce yourself in two short   uh sentences,   and it's supposed to wait.

  So, I'm going to go over to here.   um the agent is   um immediately   exiting   and so we aren't   getting uh a feedback loop   from the user input.   Okay, so we'll let that fix that. Let's   go back and take a look here. So it says   I've updated the readme document to the   new behavior. I don't need that. I need   it to actually change the functionality.

  And now it's accepting um read lines. So   I can see here in the code that um it's   going to do that and then run a turn. So   pretty clear. So we'll go back over to   here and we will start this.   We will give it a moment here.   Mhm.   It's just doing that initial prompt   here. So can you tell me the time in   Toronto?   Okay.

 And so it's going to go ahead and   try to use that tool. Not the best code,   but it it's clear, right?   The other thing is that we have this get   current time function, but uh how would   it know where to call? Right? So,   normally there'd be like a function   defined somewhere here. It's kind of   what I'm looking for.   Unless there's already a function called   get current time.

  Oh, over here it says now date. Okay.   So, it doesn't matter where you are.   It's always going to do this. So, see   how it says your host time is this.   So, I say, you know, give me time in   Calgary.   So, it doesn't know where we are. So,   this is just going to get on our running   local machine.

 So, I can't say Toronto,   Calgary. That's not going to make any   sense. Um, but anyway, it's pretty   straightforward, but you can see you get   a lot of batteries out of the out of the   box here. I could literally make this   into a twohour video, but I figured   we'll just stop it here. And there you   go.   Okay, so we now have the Codex SDK and   this allows you to run codecs   programmatically using TypeScript.

 Um, I   don't know if there's a Python library.   I think there's just a TypeScript   library. I don't understand why um you   know we're in the uh age of being able   to generate anything and then we have   limited SDKs um but you know this is   what they're doing but over here we can   see the TypeScript SDK so we are   defining codecs we are setting up the   thread and we're asking it to make a   result so what can codeex SDK do it   provides file system access code editing   command execution test running repo   awareness and so codeex SDK helps you   build coding harnesses where Codex can   be used along alongside with the OpenAI   SDK because they serve different   purposes, right? And I know it's   confusing, but we will uh keep working   through this. Okay.   Hey, this is Andrew. In this video,   we're going to take a look at   implementing the Codeex SDK. So, we'll   go into a new folder uh and we'll just   see what we can generate it out. I mean,   like, of course, you can do this

  yourself. Um, but the reason I uh do   this along with you is that in case   something doesn't work, we can fix it   together. And so I keep typing that. I   figured I made it already, but I didn't.   And so we'll cd into that and we'll open   up this codeex directory. Okay. And so   we'll just say um using can you give us   an example of the codeex SDK   um using the official   library in this folder.

 We'll go ahead   and let it generate out and wait a   moment. Okay. Okay. We are back and it   says uh we have a minimal example   running. Let's go take a look at the   code for codeex. Uh, so we give this a   nice refresh here and there's my SDK   folder or examples. Now it's following   this MJS pattern. Sure, it's fine. I   mean, like again, I'm just used to it   being JS or DS, but that's totally fine.

  So, here we have OpenAI.   That does not look right correct to me.   So, I'm going to go over and look up   Codeex SDK.   Okay.   And we will take a look here. So this is   the codeex SDK. It does not understand   what we are asking for. So we'll go down   here. It's using the GPT codeex. All   right.

 So look, you didn't use   the uh codeex SDK. Okay, that's what we   wanted. So we will let it go correct its   mistake.   Uhhuh. And we'll come back and see what   we get. Okay. So we will um take a look   at the code. Actually, before we do   that, I'm just going to set the API key   here. So, I'm just going to stop it and   we will um set it.

 So, we'll say export   codeex or not codeex uh open AI API key   equals this and hit enter. Let's go take   a look at what code we have now. So, now   we have the open SDK. So, you're helping   uh with a JavaScript repository. Review   the codebase structures. Return a short   title with three bullet points. So, here   we have codeex. It starts a thread.

 It   runs the task. very similar to the   OpenAI uh agents. Um but you know,   again, the documentation says one has   less than the other one, but like does   it though? Again, I just don't trust the   docs from OpenAI because I've been   finding things that are um not matching   exactly. So, but anyway, that's fine.

 We   will just continue on here. And I really   think it'll take deeper uh uh deeper   time working with these tools to really   really know. But we'll go ahead and   we'll run this and see if that works.   Again, we're just doing sanity checks,   making sure that this stuff works as   expected, right? Um,   and so here, right off the bat,   we're getting information back.

 And so   it works. So there you go.   Hey, it's Andrew. And in this video, I   want to take a look at the codeex um   application. So, we're going to go over   here and type in codeex. And cursor   wants us to pay for it. Sorry, we're   going for Codeex here. And we're looking   for the Codeex app. So, I'm going to go   ahead and download it.

 Um, it should be   available on all platforms. I actually   already have it installed, but I'm just   doing this again. And as you can see,   it's pulling from the Microsoft Store.   If you are on a Mac, the process will be   a little bit different. Is it on Linux?   I'm not sure. We'll go ahead and open up   Codeex or Codeex.

 Um, oh the, uh, I   guess it's the codeex app. Yep. And so   over here we have it. And you'll notice   that we can, um,   load in repositories or folders. So what   I'm going to do is go ahead and add a   new project. And I'm doing this off   screen, but I'm going to go and navigate   to my um, uh, sites directory to the   Codus examples and open it up here.

 Um,   this is not how I would want to work on   an application, but it's definitely a   way that you can work. Uh this is   obviously for folks that are um less   technical but I think that to get the   best leverage out of code actually   should be working Visual Studio Code   using the SDKs which we didn't go super   super deep into but right off the bat   you see we have some options.

 So build a   classic snake game uh populates it here.   We have our options over here. We can   change our effort. Uh we can also speak   to it which might be fun. Um but we're   going to go ahead and hit send. The only   issue with this play button or this um   speak button, it might not be able to   work while I'm also recording here.

 So,   I might not be able to demo it, but you   can see we have thread conversations   here. We can go over to plugins and   there's tons of plugins that we can   bring in. So, here's an interesting one.   Game Studio. Designing a browser game   that plays in a core loop. That sounds   really cool.

 Let's add that to Codeex   and we'll install Game Studio. These are   just plugins.   Nothing super complicated, but they're   just basically adding in skills. And   actually, right now it's building a   snake. I'm going to stop this uh for a   moment here. And so now that we have   these plugins, you know, we have all   these skills.

 That might be something   that I might be interested in trying   out. I don't know if I can make this   larger. Oh, I can. Excellent. So, I just   did a plus there. And we'll go back over   to here. I'm going to go ahead and look   for my skills.   Can I see my skills? All my skills. How   do I see all my skills in here? That's   where I say that I kind of prefer   the um   uh the other way we're working here   because we can easily see what we have.

  But here we have game play test game   studio game front end   uh 3D asset stuff.   Sure. And we'll go back over to here   and   just going to start a new conversation.   I try this again because now it might   pick up those skills,   right? Normally, you'd have to do dollar   sign and say like 3D, whatever it is, uh   game   creator, whatever it was.

 It's not   showing up as well, though. And so, what   I'm hoping is that it would pick up   those skills. It's not picking up those   skills.   Let's go over and take a look at   automation. So, this would be for   probably setting background tasks and   things like that. So, automate workflows   by scheduled threads. Yeah.

 Yeah. So,   here   we have a bunch of different ones that   we could implement.   So, here we have yesterday's activities   and we could set when it is. I don't   personally want to set this up, so I'm   not going to do that. Um,   but anyway, you can see what it is.   There's nothing super exciting about um   this.

 Again, I think it's the the very   primitive way to work with codecs, and I   I I would not recommend this method. I   would only do this if like you didn't   know how to get Visual Studio Code   installed, but if you can't do that, you   probably aren't taking this course. Um,   I'd be a different course for people,   but I'm going to just stop this here.

  But we have an idea of codeex up here.   You can get the terminal, right? Nothing   exciting. Okay, chiao.   Hey, it's Andrew. In this video, we are   going to go ahead and install the codeex   um uh extension for   Visual Studio Code. So, just go ahead   and type in Codex here. I actually   already recorded this, but I lost the   video.

 So, here I'm just going to   uninstall it really quickly, but you're   going to go ahead and install it. And   once you install it, in the top right   corner, we'll have codeex here. You can   see I already have a conversation. I'll   make a new conver conversation and I'm   going to just go into hello world.rb   here, take a screenshot, drop it in here   and say where is this code in this repo.

  It's pretty darn straightforward. Um, we   could go up to our settings if we want   to install plugins. We could search for   plugins here uh or skills. So, here we   have Sora. I think they're not doing   Sora anymore, so that one might be gone.   But, you know, maybe you want a skill to   create edit spreadsheets.

 So you can add   that skill there. Uh the only thing is I   don't think these commands work exactly   the same way. So I go ahead and type in   skills.   Stop bringing up that command. Say   agents,   you know. So a little bit limited in   terms of the way it can work here. I   probably wouldn't recommend using this   because you know the CLI is so powerful.

  The only that's kind of a pain is trying   to figure out how to paste images into   WSL 2. Not a problem on a Mac, but   definitely a problem here on Windows.   Um, but anyway, that's the codeex codeex   plugin. Nothing to write home about, but   there you go. Okay.   All right. Let's talk about the Codex   app server.

 This is an interface uh used   by Codex to power their rich clients.   And so, if you want deep integration,   this is what you're going to use. Um, it   implements this birectional   communication using JSON RPC, which they   call app server protocol. Uh and so if   you're using codeex SDK, there's a lot   of stuff that you would have to roll uh   roll your own.

 But with the Codex app   server, you're going to get a lot of   additional functionality. This is   confusing if you come from cloud code as   they have the um agents SDK which has   all this functionality, but for whatever   reason, it's separated out into the   codeex um the Codex SDK, the Codex app   server, and then you have the agents   SDK.

 So they're all doing something a   little bit different. They all can work   together. Um, but anyway, the Codex app   server here, here's an implementation of   it. But the idea is that you would just   start up your server. So, you're saying   I'm starting up a Codex app server. All   right? Or you can say listen with   websockets.

 And then the idea here is   that you can just send it um uh   information. So, you're just saying I'm   going to send the method initialization   with these parameters as it's using its   own protocol to communicate. And so,   here you don't need to know um you know   complex SDKs. You're literally just   sending messages back and forth.

 Um and   so that is the approach that they took.   Okay,   we can use GitHub actions uh along with   codecs. And so we saw earlier with the   non-interactive   um uh mode that you could just, you   know, put it into any kind of build   server and utilize codecs, but they have   their own uh built-in Codex GitHub   action.

 And so you can just see here I'm   just get my pen tool out here. Um that   we can just call it direct directly   provide it a prompt file an output file   set it sandbox. Um so definitely easy   way to work with codeex um in GitHub   actions and you know you could have it   to react to stuff and do stuff based on   whether you have pull requests or   comments or things like that.

 Um so yeah   there you go.   Hey folks, this is Andrew. In this   video, what I want to do is implement a   uh use case with um codecs with GitHub.   So, I'm going to go over and typing   codeex uh GitHub actions as there's   going to be some kind of GitHub action   that we can utilize. And so, if we go   over to here, this should be uh the open   source one.

 So, I'm making sure that   this is indeed the official one. It is   over here. And so, I just need a simple   use case. I'm going to copy this over to   here. And we will cd back a directory.   and we'll just say codeex um and we'll   say I need a simple example to show off   uh GitHub actions with codeex uh   reference uh here.   Okay, so please create me   a simple workflow and then we will   verify that workflow in just a moment.

  Okay.   Okay. So let's take a look at what we   have here.   Hold on here one second. Sorry. Yep. So   we'll go up into GitHub action or GitHub   folder workflow demo. Let's see what we   have. So we have what codec should focus   on in this repository. Give me a quick   tour of the example repo. So it says   workflow dispatch inputs focus. Uhhuh.

  Okay. I'm not exactly sure. I mean folks   I made a GitHub action score so you know   I know the stuff. But like this usually   is like I think a manual a manual one,   right? So here uh you're generating a   short demo report for GitHub actions.   Look through this repository and produce   a concise report.   Keep it clear.

 Export it out as this   file. Um   okay. So before we do that, I'm going to   go ahead over to my repository here. or   wherever well wherever it is up over   here and I'm going to go into my   settings   and in here there should be a section   for um   secrets and we will go to actions   and we will set this at the repo level   and this will be open AI API key and we   will bring in that key.

 So   I'm looking for where that key is. I   still have it.   Uh or maybe I don't anymore,   which is fine. I can go make a new key.   Making new keys is fun. So go here. I'll   just delete this old key. Revoke. We   will create ourselves a new key. GitHub   key. And we will create that key. Then   we will copy it.

 We will go over to   here. We will paste it in. We will hit   add secret. Okay. So now we have the   secret for this repository which is the   codeex example repository. I don't know   this is really the right approach but   I'm going to do this anyway. So check   out the repository run codeex   and then generate report workflow   dispatch inputs.

  I hover over will tell me how it works.   You can create workflows   run workflow button. So that's what I   was expecting this to be. Okay. So what   we'll do is we'll now go ahead   add workflow and we will now push this   here. I usually don't do manual   workflows.   And I mean like it probably more   practical to have it like react to   content and stuff like that, but it's   fine.

 If you took my um Claude Claude   course, you'll already have an idea of   how that stuff works.   And so I'm going over to here and we   will give it a refresh. And so it is in   here. We will go to actions   and I'm looking for where it Oh, here it   is. Codex demo. And so we can run this   workflow.   Oh, cool. You can even change the   prompt.

 So you can ask questions about   it. That's kind of cool. And we'll run   it and we'll see what results we get   back. Okay. All right. So we're back and   let's take a look here.   And so here we can see three folders   suggested next demo to run.   Um, and so it generated out. So that's   what we wanted to do. I wonder if it   actually placed it in the repo because   it might have dropped it right in here.

  Um,   does it just generate it in place? I   mean, I'm fine with that. I don't really   necessarily need it anywhere else, but   it is right here. Let me go down here   for a second.   It says codeex demo summary.   And then, oh, it just prints it out.   Okay. So, I'm thinking it didn't commit   it to the repository and it's just   printing it out here.

  Cool. And so, we go back over to our top   layer here. Yeah. And I mean, that's   fine. So, it did exactly what we needed   it to do. And there you go. Okay.   Agent skills are a lightweight open   format for extending AI agents. This is   an open format uh that was created. I   said we created yes I created with   anthropic but it was created by   Anthropic um in 2025.

  Okay. So this is the directory structure   that you're going to see. You're going   to name of the skill right here. It's   going to have a skill MD. It may have   scripts. It may have references and it   may have assets. So skills use   progressive disclosure to manage context   efficiently.

 If you ask me what that   means, it's word I forget and it shows   up many times in marketing. So it's some   kind of marketing jargon um that Claude   likes to or anthropic likes to say a   lot. Um I think it means like   progressive disclosure. It means like   only load when you need it, right? So   you know when you use claw m uh clawed   MD files and then we had file other   files in other locations um it would   only load it when it needed to be and   doesn't need to know everything.

 We also   see this term progressive disclosure   when we talk about MCP as well but   anyway that's a side note. Um so um   anyway back to this there's three things   we got discovery. So at startup agents   load only the name and description of   each skill available just enough so you   uh might know when it will be relevant.

  So what I just said activation when a   task matches a skill description the   agent reads the full skill MD   instructions into context. Execution the   agent follows instructions optionally   loading reference files or executing   bundle code as needed. So yeah just what   I said.

 Let's take a look at the anatomy   of a skills MD. So you have your front   matter and you have to have a name and   description. That's all you need to have   the skill, but um you probably want to   have actual instructions because it'll   be a lot better. And then the only thing   you need to have is that skillmd.   Everything else, the scripts and stuff   are optional.

 Um something that you   might also want to specify is allowed   tools that is in that script. So here we   have a lot more information. You can see   we have license compatibility, metadata,   but allowed tools I think is one we're   going to care care about. Okay. Um, but   yeah, that is the most basic information   about an agent skill.

  Okay, so codec skills are agent skills.   They follow the agent skills open   format. This is very similar to Claude,   but they're going to be a little bit   different as it'll have some of its own   special customization. Skills are just   specialized workflows trained to work in   very specific ways.

 As I just said,   Codex does extend the standard. Not by   much, but there is some differences, and   we'll cover that in the next slide. If   you want to see a list of skills that   are available to you, you type in   for/skills and you can see the built-in   ones there. Notice that that one in blue   is actually one that I built myself.

 So,   with Claude, when you type for/skills,   it doesn't show you everything. It just   shows you uh uh one or the other. Can't   remember. But the point here is they   show you everything here. That's nice.   And notice there's a dollar sign and   that's intentional as skills start with   the dollar sign name when you are typing   them in to the prompt when you want to   invoke them.

 So if you type in dollar   sign, it will start autocompleting based   on available skills. Um and because   you're using codec skills or agent   skills, uh if you don't directly say I   want to use this skill, it will just um   in indirectly consider it if the   description is matching for that skill.   Okay.

 So over here we have our extension   in terms of what codec skill adds. So it   adds adds this openi.yamel file in the   agents directory. Um just make note that   that agents directory is going to vary.   I think most of the times it has a   period in front of it. We'll find out in   actual execution when we go make our own   custom scale.

 And I do believe there was   some confusion in terms of the naming as   the docs are not accurate. So in the   lab, we definitely solve that issue, but   I believe it's just agents. Um but   anyway, so you're going to see that they   have some interface stuff in here and   then you can change the invocation   policy and dependency tools.

 Um so   that's basically it. Um, Claude does a   lot more to extend this this um, uh,   this format, but this is still fine for   Codeex. Um, you can save skills and load   them from multiple places. Notice that   they're going into the agents directory   and then it's skills. Okay, so it can be   from your current working directory.

 It   can be above it. It can be in the   topmost place of your repo. It can be   your home directory and then there's   like a one that's completely on your   machine. And there's probably another   option. So, there's a lot of places   where these can get loaded in. I think   for the most part, you're going to be   using option one or option three here.

  Um, but uh, yeah, we do have, I think,   some challenges with the name of the   directory there. And it's either with a   dot or not a dot, but we'll we'll solve   that in the actual custom agent lab, and   you'll get that experience hands-on.   Okay.   Hey, this is Andrew. In this video, I   just want to show you the general skills   that we have available to us.

 Uh, and so   I'm going to go into maybe our hello   world here and we're going to open up   codeex and let's just take a look at   what possible skills we have. So if we   type for/skills, we can get a list of   current skills we have. And if I list   out skills, we can see them. Um, and I   actually created this will be in a   separate video, but I created a custom   skill.

 If I was in this repo, it would   show up there. So if we create our   skills, we should always check   for/skills to see if they're showing up.   But notice we have open eye docs.   um which we probably could have been   using sooner since we tend to ask it   quite a bit to reference the docs. Here   we have deploy model.   So I guess that's an integration with a   Azure and Microsoft Foundry   and yeah not a whole lot of stuff here   but it is interesting we have a generate   image images for website games or more.

  So that might be fun to do and so what   I'm going to do here   is I'll make a new directory. So, just   go back a directory here. And actually,   we can go into our Wolfenstein game.   Okay. And I'm going to go to codeex   here.   I'm going to say, uh, you know, can you   generate an image that we can use in our   Wolfenstein game?   Okay.

  And we might need to do this in two   paths. We might have said like, what   assets do we need? and then uses to   generate that out. Um but we will give   that a moment and see what it comes back   with. So I'm checking the project. Okay,   so it is doing that.   It is a very small repo.   Okay.   So it says the fastest fallback which   needs the open AAI set.

 So if you want I   can generate a project ready PNG and   save it in this repo for example   given the current codebase.   Yeah please please go ahead.   I think if I ever used an image it would   fall back to a skill but we will see if   we can generate some stuff out.   I can't complete the generation because   I don't have it set.

 So, what I'll do,   I'm going to go over to uh OpenAI   because we do have a key   and   um sorry, OpenAI developers.   Just trying to make my way over to the   um the platform here.   And I'm going to go into API keys.   And I'm in basics. I'll create a new   one. This will be Wolfenstein graphics   or like uh 3D images or image image   gener.

 Sure, why not? I'm going to go   ahead and create that key. Copy that   key.   And   well, I need to close this out first.   I'm going to do this. Paste that in like   that. Copy my key. Okay.   Paste it in as such.   Okay. And I'm going to go back over to   here. Run it   and say uh we'll go resume. Uh the the   key should I set the I set the envir   try again.

 We'll see if it can pick it   up that way. Normally you'd pass it   along with the program when you start,   but I'm hoping that it just kind of   picks that up. And so technically, we   are using your subscription, but it also   will use the key. It printed the key out   here. So, it knows exactly where the key   is, which is really, really interesting.

  So, we are still on our subscription.   Um, I'm going to generate it out. So, it   literally looks like it pulled it out of   our end bars and is directly using that   key.   And we'll say, uh, yes, you're allowed   to do that.   And so now we're just waiting for that   generation. And we will wait a moment.   It's saying the bundle CLI is failing   against OpenAI.

 I'm checking the   expected API service. So, it looks like   I have an old version of OpenAI   installed. So, I would have thought that   it would use HTTP request directly, but   it's interesting that it's invoking it   that way. Um, so I'm not really sure   what's going in the image gen. Maybe   they're just helping you with the image   prompts like uh because it seems like   it's still invoking manual manual   endpoints and using SDKs.

  Okay. And now we're just waiting for   that generation. And we can see it   running in the background there. Uh,   this might be our our perfect   opportunity to type in PS. So, PS allows   us to see background background tasks.   It's like the only opportunity I ever   got to show that.   Um,   yeah, PS is for background tasks, right?   And even still, I can go like PS right   now.

 And we can see this is a background   terminal that's running.   I'll probably put in the message PS so   that we know about it because I'm never   going to have another opportunity to   show uh processes.   And it says it's now written the images.   And now it's doing a sanity check.   And we will hang tight here.   And now it's showing those final   prompts.

 I've I've upgraded the local   OpenAI package for so the bundler can do   whatever. That's cool. I can generate a   matching wall text and enemy now.   Um, did it do it?   So I don't think it generated it out.   Let's go back over to here. Source disc   assets. Yeah. So you know proceed to   generate images   and maybe it'll be smart enough to cue   those up as separate tasks or processes.

  We'll see.   And we'll see if it does that. If it was   smart would do that. So, I'm generating   a small starter set of usable assets.   I'll batch them into the output img   genen. So, you have a coherent set uh uh   instead of one-off art. Sounds good to   me.   I was not expecting Wolfenstein to be   this easy to make to be honest.

 We'll go   ahead and say yes and proceed.   Is passing the prompting information uh   or the prompt for the image generation.   So, that is going. We'll give it a   moment here. Okay, the images have   generated out. Let's go take a look   here. And I'm going to go into where did   it go? It says image gen output. So   output   still going   generated set.

  Take a look here. Oh, it's something   portrait icon   wall stone. Wow.   Well, maybe not that one. That one's not   very good.   The question is is going to incorporate   them though.   It is limited in terms of its   generation, right? Because it's very   fixed. But we will wait here a little   longer. And so now, let's see.

 The   strongest immediate use assets are the   wall textures. That's true. Let's take a   look at what else we have.   Yeah, these are fine. I mean, the guard   photos aren't very good. I also upgrade   the local Python. We know that. So, if   you want the next steps, integrate them   into the game.

 Generate the matching   um   generate matching door floor. I would   say, you know, focus on to generate   uh we don't need   enemy variants,   but we need a floor. I don't think the   game has doors   yet.   So, we'll do that. And so, it should   already know to utilize the image gen or   have enough uh context information to do   that.

 Uh, and then we'll integrate them   and then we'll see the results.   So, I'm generating the matching floor   and door art rather than enemies. Okay,   great. So, I didn't think there was door   logic, but if it's there, let's have a   go at it. So, it's explaining what it   is. Again, this is not great. Again, I'm   assuming this we're going to see that as   the enemy, and if it's not great, we   will adjust it.

 Our usage has been   pretty good so far. Uh, but we'll hang   tight here. Let's take a look here. So,   the game has doors already. And so, now   it's generated out those images. And so,   we have this door, that door. I really   don't see that working very well, but I   mean like the the floor and stuff will   work, right? So, okay.

 Um, so now let's   uh let's implement   actually in the game. So, they show up.   Okay.   Yeah. I mean, it's not going to know.   It's not going to be the best at this,   but like how's that   going to work?   And how's that going to work? Yeah, I   don't I don't know about that. How's   that going to work? Right.   It's still cool that we can quickly do   this and get a prototype,   but we will have to hang tight, right?   Okay.

 So, it is now done and it will be   fun to go give this game a try. So, I'm   going to go over just to another   directory. Um, and we'll go to   Wolfenstein   and we will run our build.   Not sure if that's how we ran it before.   I don't remember as it's been a while.   So, going to go over to here, take a   look.   Uh,   do we have any instructions on how to   serve it? Probably not.

 I'm going to do   HP server.   So, that'll start on localhost 880.   We'll open the browser. Maybe it just   runs   here. I have this. Enter the bunker.   Um,   we'll go to here.   Yeah, I'm not exactly sure.   So, go back.   Okay. Um, can you run the game?   Because HB server should have worked.   So I can test   I don't the images are large.

 It   shouldn't matter. npm rundev. So we'll   go ahead and do that. It's just an   alternative way of running it.   And so we'll open this up. There we go.   I'm not exactly sure why the other one   didn't work, but our graphics are in.   How cool is that? So, there's some   things that are missing like whatever   that is down below. Oh, it's our gun.

  Right. So, it says shots fired. Whoa. We   got some stretching going on here.   Why is this wall green?   And they don't seem to die or vanish, I   should say. There we go. I wasn't   clicking uh shoot. There we go. And I   don't I don't It doesn't show any health   here.   Oh my goodness.   It's weird that when we roll into it, it   does that weird stretching part.

 There   we go.   Why do we have so many doors here?   So, we're getting definitely more   distortion and and some weird stuff. But   the point is is that it still is kind of   working. So, again, this isn't a go make   an an entire course on um on   Wolfenstein. Why is there so many doors?   What weird logic is this? But it's   interesting that it works.

  Okay. So, yeah, we have achieved our   example working with skills. We'll call   that done. Okay.   Hey, this is Andrew. In this video,   we're going to take a look at skills.   Um, and so what we're going to do is   make a new folder. And this will be um   something that we need to uh create a   skill for. I like using data.

 So, we'll   just say like um simple to-do   uh data and we'll go into here. I'm   going to launch up codeex and what I   want to do is create maybe a JSON   structure file. So, create me a JSON   file to manage uh my um project   management. Uh I need mock data   uh mock data   for a single JSON file. Okay, I'm going   to put this into plan mode just so that   it'll ask me some questions.

 And the   idea here is that we'll generate it out   and then we'll create a skill that can   go and manage uh that list there. Okay.   And apparently do they do have a   built-in creator uh that we can utilize   to help build our skill. Um but we'll   just give it a moment here to get   established and then we will move   forward here. Okay.

 Oh, here are   questions. So, uh one JSON file with   projects tasks. Yes. Um,   shape the data like realistic app. No,   shape the data more like normalized C   data.   Um,   I would just maybe more like C data.   Sure. You're going to have different   options than me. We're not going to have   the same thing.   Great. It's looking good so far.

  And   we'll say implement switch to default   mode. And so we just want that one   uh that one uh file created. Okay. All   right. We are back. Let's take a look at   our actual data here and see what we   have. So give us a nice refresh here.   And so we have uh data, right? I'm not   that worried about the data.

 I just want   to build a skill. And I find skills are   really really useful if you know   manipulating something like data. That's   what I like. Let's go ahead and we'll   type in skill.   And notice I had to put a dollar sign in   here to get all the stuff. I didn't   realize that dollar sign was our our   skill activator, but we have a bunch   here.

 So, we'll go ahead and type in   skill um creator.   Okay. Okay. And we'll say uh we need to   create a skill that will let us add   uh modify   uh find or up um delete tasks in our   project manager data file. Okay. So   we'll go ahead and enter that in. And so   it should create um that skills   directory and that skill.md. And then we   will take a look at what we have. Okay.

  So here it's starting to use the skills   creator and it's checking uh for its   helper scripts so it can scaffold it. So   that's good. Where should I create this?   Um no this is this is a project specific   skill. So create it in the current   folder.   Okay.   Otherwise if it puts it there that's   going to be a globally accessible skill.

  That's not what we want, right? So we'll   give it a moment there to figure that   out.   or it's been taking quite a quite a long   time to write the skill, but let's go   take a look and see what it has   currently. And so in here we have   project task JSON manager. Um, shouldn't   it be in a skills folder?   Mhm. Just a moment here.

 Well, how's it   going to detect that? Let me just double   check. All right. And so here it's   saying that uh there's well, obviously   there's multiple places where you can   place it. There's agent/skills, but   there's also just for/kills in the   codeex directory. I thought that I   thought that's what it would do. But   here it says admin.

 So any skill checked   into the machine or container in the   system used for SD scripts automation   for checking default admin skills   available to each user on the machine.   Uh sure I mean like I'm in the repo,   right? Oh, but this is at etc codec   skills. And so here it's expecting agent   skills very inconsistent uh folder   naming schema.

 And so here it's   validating it and it's running it   manually   which is silly. Let's go ahead and type   in skills. And I want to take a look   here and list the skills. And so what   I'm looking for is my project management   one. I don't see it here. And maybe we'd   have to restart the context. But I'm   going to go ahead here and make a new   folder called Well, hold on.

 We have   agents right here. And I'll go here and   just say, you know, skilluer, skill   creator. Uh, you created me a skill,   but the docs say   you are supposed to   Oh my goodness. We'll just go ahead and   just do it ourselves. Let's just test   it. This is ridiculous that it did not   uh create the folder correctly.

 Um, and   so we will go into here and we'll make a   new folder. And this will be   agents. And then we'll go ahead and say   skills. And then we'll drag this into   here and we'll move it. Totally   ridiculous that we have to do it that   way. But we'll go ahead and run this   and we'll type in skills and we'll say   list skills.

 And so I'm looking for and   there now it shows up, right? So it's   really interesting that the codec skill   builder does not work correctly, but   that's okay. So now that we have it, I   want to go invoke the skill. And the way   skills invoke is based on its   description. So here it says manage the   task records.

 Use codeex to add, update,   find, filter tasks. Use a skill to make   deterministic changes.   And then here we have helper runner   scripts. I'm not sure why we need all   that.   Uh, sure.   Explains the task schema. So that's not   a bad idea for references. And then we   have the the manage tasks.   So here it knows the structure and so   it's utilizing us to parse and return   and look at information. Sure.

  And then we go in here into Open AI.   Uhhuh. Sure. Okay. And we'll go over to   here. I guess that's to expose it so we   can utilize it over here. And we'll go   over to the top here. So, um, let's go   ahead and book it. So, we'll say project   task manager. Can I get a list of my   tasks? Not that we would need that to do   it, but we'll go ahead and just do that   there.

  I actually needed a um skill for like I   have uh I'm learning Japanese and I have   these transcripts and I need to adjust   them so they perfectly align up and   sometimes the speaker is wrong, the the   place is wrong and stuff like that. It   needs complex logic to figure it out and   so I have a skill for that but this is   um obviously simpler than this.

 So here   we'll uh wait for it to come back   not the helper script. So I'm reading   the task records directly.   didn't even use the uh thing. I've got   the user map next for uh next key is   formatting it. Mhm.   And so now we are getting a tasks back.   It is working. So we can't complain. It   does work.

 And I'm going to go ahead and   do this. And so we'll say we have a   bunch of tasks here. and   um   mark the mark the low tasks   as done.   And what I'm trying to observe here is   it actually using the operations within   the skill or is it um just going out   here at the very least we know that it   is using a prompt and it is being   contextualized based on this   information.

 The only thing is that like   these locations are very um explicit as   to where they are and maybe it doesn't   know where it is relative to here.   Okay.   And mostly it's just using jq. So it's   not using the manage task.py.   Okay.   and then it's editing it directly.   So that's not working exactly. We wanted   to use the manage tasks.

 So I'm going to   go back here and we're going to say   skill creator, you created a uh uh the   skill is not using the manage task pi.   It just seems to be reading and updating   directly.   Can we force the skill to always use   the manage tasks pi so that it um   ensures data consistency.   Okay, because right here I'm looking for   it and it's not executing it right.

 So   we'll go ahead here and hit enter.   I mean there's one skill. I didn't   specify which skill, but we'll see if it   can pick that up. Yep. Um, so here we   have information updates. Let's take a   look here and see what it did. So I'm   adding the skill now that changes it   fixes the command path to a   non-negotiable never edit JSON directly.

  Um, so use the skill to determine   whatever whatever. Um, in here we are   trying to find   add find. So it's giving better   examples. Resolve the helper path. So,   it's updated the pathing   and it has um   update examples and it just keeps   iterating. Hey, do not manually edit   this stuff.

 So, we'll go ahead and we'll   say yes, proceed.   Okay,   the only thing we don't have here is   like a list, a task list. So, I'm just   going here and   I mean we should be able to filter and   find. So, find matching tasks, right?   Okay, so the validation passed, but the   smoke test uh exposed the actual blocker   manage test computes the default data   path incorrectly.

 And so we'll go ahead   and let it update that information.   And now it's back. So it says it changed   the scale, uses the correct helper path,   always use the script, uh fixed the uh   typo in there, and then we have a quick   validate. And so now we should be able   to edit things. And so I'm just going to   kill it and go back and do it.

 I don't   know if that really needs to happen, but   I'm going to do it anyway. We'll do   dollar sign. And here we'll do project   task manager. And we'll say um uh show   me only or find me find me the uh medium   level tasks, right? And so here I wanted   to invoke this script that it created.   And look, now it's using it, right?   Okay. And it comes back and formats it.

  Nice. There we go. Okay. And this is   better because then it's reducing the   computational need of the agent, but   also we're also restricting how it   should interact with it. And they'll go   say um you know, can we change task   0000009   uh to be done? Okay.   And here uh you know, we didn't   specifically say it, but we're hoping   that invokes the task. And it is.

 It   looks like it is anyway. And so now it's   updated that task.   Okay, relist out the recent uh found   tasks.   And again, I'm going to see if it   invokes it.   I I think it's invoking the task. It's   just hard to tell because here we   explicitly used it, right? But I believe   that it is routing and it is using it   correctly. Uh and there you go.

 So   that's skills and agent skills is a um   standardized format. So technically you   could take this and move it over to to   cloud code. The only thing that's a   little bit unusual here is the agents   open AI. I'm not sure why we need this.   Um but I'm sure if I go update the   slides we'll explain that. Okay.   Hey folks, this is Andrew and in this   video I want to show you how to change   your model, how to change your effort.

  Very straightforward. We'll go ahead and   type in codeex. And then if we type in   model, we can now choose our model. So   I'll go to mini. And then we have other   ones. So we have low, medium, high,   extra high. So the more effort you give   it, the larger the context window is.   I'm going to go to to low.

 And we'll go   ahead and just say uh you know, can you   um add another puts um to the hello   world file? Okay. And the idea is that   this is going to save on your   computation down below. If you're doing   really simple things, you want to keep   it the effort low. You want to use a   model that is appropriate.

 And there you   go. That was super fast. Uh I barely   noticed any kind of change of use there.   Um   and so I was just to quit that out   there. You can see the token usage is   very very small. So very very very   small. Um but yeah, not much to say   there. Very straightforward. I'll see   you in the next one. Okay. Chowo chia.

  Hey, this is Andrew. Let's take a look   if we can use the fast feature. So, I'm   going to go ahead here and type in fast.   So, fast mode toggles fastest inference   for the two times planned usage. And so,   the idea is that when you use this, it   will be two times faster uh than it   would normally would be.

 So, I'm in my   Hello World app right now. That's what   we uh ran this on. I'm going to go ahead   and say, can you   update my hello world so that it has uh   20 strings in an array and loops and   prints them out. So, we'll go ahead and   hit enter and we're going to get some   two times speed.   It's interesting.

 My usage is just uh   recycled there. It was it was um not   100% just a moment ago. And oh, is it   already done? And so that was pretty   darn fast. Um I'm not sure what model   size I'm on right now. I might be on on   mini. I'm on mini and I'm on um the   lowest reasoning. And so   as you can see that is super super fast.   And it did it for both.

 So you know if   you're in a hurry you can use fast mode.   I'm going to toggle that off. But that   was fun. Okay. Cha chia.   Hey, this is Andrew. In this video, we   are going to take a look at plugins. So,   plugins allow us to bring in a bunch of   stuff uh as a package. So, we'll go   ahead and type in plugin. And so, here   we can see curated plugins available.

  So, we have linear, Netflix, notion,   century, slack, stripe, all sorts of   stuff. U we have game studio, which is   just a series of plugins. I want to go   ahead and take a look at what game   studio is. So, I'm just off screen here.   Here, I'm waiting for my browser to be   responsive.

 I'm going to type in game   studio uh plugins. I'm again I'm just   typing this into Google um   codeex. And so what I'm looking for   is if it will tell me what's in this   plugin,   right? Because it should be on GitHub   somewhere. I would expect it to be. So   we go back here. Let's type in GitHub.   It must be on GitHub because I believe   it's one that Dave uh authored, right?   Says Roblox video, which actually is not   a bad idea.

 My kid really likes Roblox   and that'd be something that would be   probably useful to uh give a go. Popular   project for connecting AI agents to   Roblox. Oh, but like to but to Roblox   Studio, right? Um   so I'm thinking about it, but I like I   was I was hoping what I would find are   the actual plugins. So, let's just say   Codeex plug-in marketplace   because that's what I want, right? I   want to be able to   see where they come from   and   they're not making it easy.

 Uh, give me   just a moment. Okay. All right. So,   maybe this is my confusion. They're   saying that there is no general   repository for it, which is different   than Claude. So, that's why I'm a little   bit confused. Um, but you know, like the   issue is like how am I using something   that I I don't I can't see the use of.

  So, what I'm going to do is make a new   tab here. We're going to go explore our   codeex directory at our home directory.   Okay? Because this stuff has to go   somewhere, right? Um, and so I'm going   to go into skills.   We have develop. See, it's right there.   I'm going to go ahead and open it up and   we'll take a look at what we actually   have here.

 So we have agents our agents   open AAI file   um and we learned about that in skills.   So here this is defining the interface   and so just a couple graphics. This is   more for um the codeex app obviously. So   this is just this is just a scale that's   all it really is. We'll go into here. We   have a playwright client.   Okay.

 And so playright is a way to   control uh the browser. So this is a way   that it could directly control it. Let's   go into the skill.   I was expecting a bunch of skills. It's   just a single skill. Okay. So use when   Codex is building or iterating on a web   game. It needs a reliable development   testing loop. Install small changes. Run   a playright test script.

 Uh build the   game in incremental steps.   Okay. So nothing super complicated here.   I was expecting more. I thought it had   more um skills because if we were over   here, and this might be a video for   later or from before, but if we go into   our um plugins here,   and we go into skills,   we type in game,   game studio.   I was expecting a little bit more now   over here.

  So here we have play test studio   frontend game fibergame. We have a bunch   of skills, a ton of skills. So where are   they? Because that's what I want to   know. And we have one here. Develop web   game.   And that's just the one. So let's go   back over to here.   We'll cd back. Maybe they're just here   in the directory.

  No, it's just the one. I mean, I didn't   install the plugin. I installed the   skill. Well, I thought it No, no, no.   It's right here. So, let's go ahead and   hit enter, I guess. We'll go ahead and   hit enter. So, this is going to install   the plugin and all skills.   Okay, so now it's installed. I'm going   to go back over to here   and I'm expecting more, right? Let's go   system.

  No,   no plugins.   Uhhuh.   Let's find that content.   There we go. There we go. You can't hide   from me because you want to know like   you got to get get to this stuff if you   want to work with it. And so if you know   where it is and you can muck with it.   But let's open it up and take a look at   what we have here. So there we go.

  There's all our skills. Um and so   there's nothing really that complicated   with it.   We have a few more uh steps here and   then within them they they might have   their own. So we had game studio   somewhere in here. What's interesting   like is that the other one had play   right which was individual skill.

 This   one doesn't seem to have it.   Okay. And so I just want to, you know,   point out it's like it's nice that there   are um,   you know, these skills, but you really   should build your own because like, you   know, I know how to build phaser 2D   games and I would not describe this as   uh, particularly good.

 I'd be a lot more   specific in terms of how I'd want it to   work. And so, you know, just because   there are these things here, they took   two seconds to generate out. Um, and so   you'll get better results if you make   your own. But anyway, um, that's where   the plugins are.   And I suppose we could look at how to   make our own plugin.

 I'm not that   interested in doing that. Uh making our   own plugin,   but I just wanted to show you that th   those options are there. I'm just   curious about linear because it does   come up as a main integration. So I'm   just wondering if we should explore   that. Um   as it is this thing here,   product development system for teams.

  Um,   do we care about this?   Planning and building projects designed   for the AI era. So, it's a design   project management tool. I don't know.   I'm not sure if I'm that interested in   it, but it does come up as a integration   thing. So, build, plan, deploy. It kind   of feels like just a way to control and   watch um the project outcome.

 So, no, I   don't think so. I think that we we got   what we wanted here, but obviously there   is other ones. I'm just curious. So,   let's go ahead and look at maybe um   Gmail. We'll say install that plugin and   we'll go back over to Oh, make sure we   grab all of it. Install on Chat GPT. No,   no, no.

 Uh continue without waiting for   refresh.   Install the required apps in chat to   continue. Ah, so you have to install it   over there.   Okay. I don't really want to do that   though. So, I'm not exactly sure why   we'd have to go over to Chat GPT for   that. Um, but I was just hoping that it   was a skill in here. But maybe that's   the way it has a connection out to um to   that.

 But again, we this is more of a   developer focused um course, so we're   not going to do that here. Um, and that   would be something I would put in my   from zero course where we do   automations. But yeah, again, we have an   idea of how plugins work. So that that's   good enough. Okay.   Okay, this is kind of interesting, but   if you want Codex to talk to agents SDK,   uh one strategy is to uh launch Codeex   as its own MCP server.

 And so you would   launch it up and then uh you could then   use the agents SDK to communicate it as   it's an MC MCP server. To me, I find   this completely convoluted and   complicated. Again, Claude just has the   claw SDK, but for whatever reason, this   is where they wanted to draw those   boundaries.

 I cannot tell you as to why,   but that's how it is. So, there you go.   Okay.   Okay. In this video, I'd like us to work   with an MCP tool. I'm probably going to   use Roblox as that's probably a good   method for it. So, I'm going to go ahead   and type in codecs. And in here, what   I'm going to do is go into uh the   plugins   because I think we saw one for Roblox.

  I'm going to type in Roblox.   Nope. Um, so what I'm going to do   instead is just go to the internet and   type in Roblox.   We will we will get Roblox if we want   it.   Roblox   MCP codeex.   And so we have one here.   So here's a fellow that made it. And we   we're going to go ahead and add it. I   like how it's it's available for all   three, but we have Claude, Codex, and   Gemini.

 And so I'm going to go ahead and   copy this and we will stop and we will   hit enter. And so now Codeex has been   added or sorry um Roblox has been added   as an MCP   um environment. And so for this to work,   I'm going to have to get Roblox Studio   installed.   So you can just watch and learn or you   can install it along with me. Maybe you   hate Roblox, maybe you think it's   interesting.

 There's good money to be   made on Roblox. Um, and so I'm going to   go ahead and just make sure that I have   the studio installed. I actually might   already have it installed because I was   trying to show my kid how to code. Um,   and they they actually do have a   built-in AI, but it's not the best. I I   can't show you, but I'm actually loading   um studio offscreen here.

 It's just over   here. And so now we're over here. I need   to get logged in. So just give me a   moment to log in. And I'm now in the   studio. I'm going to just say back to   home. I'm going to go ahead and make   myself a new place. And so, if you've   never used Roblox before, it could be   pretty confusing, but it's not really   hard.

 You basically are pressing plus   button here on the left right hand side   quite a bit to add things. And there's   this chat down below. And literally, I   learned it like in an hour to show my   kid. Um, so I'm going to go back over to   here and I'm going to go ahead and say   codeex.   Well, I'm going to go I don't think it   really matters where we um do this, but   I'm going to make a new directory.

 I'm   going call like Roblox   uh Roblox fun.   Okay. And we're going to go ahead and   type in codeex.   And so I would I would suspect that if   um we have MCP, we just type in formcp.   It would tell us if it's connected or   not. So here we have it. And we have um   codeex apps, barer token tools, none   resources, none, unsupported.

 That's not   great. But here um we have a bunch of   tools like add tag, capture screenshot,   create build, create object. Um so we   should be able to say something like add   something to the world. So uh you know,   I have Roblox open right now.   Can you uh Roblox Studio,   can you use the MCP tool to add a object   to the world? Okay.

 And let's go ahead   and see if that works though. Normally,   like with Claude, you check to see if   you're actually connected or not. And so   here it's not so clear. I can do that   with the studio. I need one detail. What   object should I add and where? Um   add a square. Add a um   a B. Let's go take a look what we can   add because they do have different kinds   of objects. Um, so we have parts.

 So   we'll say a sphere. So add a sphere. Um,   you know,   uh, you know, like 10 10 out from   origin. Okay, I'm just saying 10 10. I   would assume that's something. So here,   allow to do this. We'll say allow. Yes.   I've never done this before. Just trying   it out. And so here it's doing   Roblox.create object.

 I'm assuming it's   making API calls   um   on our machine somehow. No, no idea how   it's exactly working. We could probably   look at the code. Could we look at the   code?   Actually, I'm not sure,   but um   we're going to wait here and see if it   works. If it works, that'd be really   cool.   In um in our other video, I used Tvago.   Uh, so we're not going to do Travaga   this time. So allow to run get instance.

  We'll say allow.   So it's uh studio plugin connection   time. Okay. So maybe we need a plugin.   Let's go over to here. I didn't install   any plugin.   So   uh there's no plugin tab here, but let's   go back over to the Roblox   um   uh actual website here. I've kind of   lost it now. I'm just looking for it.   I don't see it.

 So, type Roblox   MCP   Roblox MCP here.   And so, there must be a plugin.   So, install it.   Connect the AI assistants like Claude   and Gemini to the studio.   Oh, install the studio plugin over here.   Okay, so I missed the first step   and we need to download that first   otherwise it's not going to work. Um,   so we'll click here and so there it is.

  I'll go ahead and download that.   Totally safe to install, right?   And   uh the file is downloaded. So I need to   load it in. So I'm going to assume   there's some way to bring it in. Let's   see if I can just drag it in.   Does that work? Uh, I mean, it's in   here. I'm not sure if that's the correct   way to bring it in. Plugins.

 We'll say   manage plugins. Add.   Add. And so somewhere in here, we should   be able to bring them in. So, we have   creator store.   No, I just You haven't installed any   plugins. To find more plugins, open the   marketplace. No, that's not how we want   to do it. We just want to bring it in   plugins folder. There we go.

 And so   here's a folder right here. I'm going to   drop this plugin like that. And so now   we'll go back over to here and I'm going   to close out the studio. Don't save. And   we will reopen the studio here.   And we'll see   we can get this to work here.   So,   uh-huh. We'll go ahead here   and open a base template,   base plate template.

 And now we have MCP   server. Okay. And so there's one thing   we do need to do. We have to allow Well,   this will see if we're actually   connected.   Connect.   But I think we have to allow um   HTTP server. It said   I keep losing um   the window for the MCP server. Here we   go. Back over to here. We'll click back.   Back. So, enable allow setting security.

  So, we're going to go to   file   studio settings.   We got network   allow it in experience settings. Oh,   okay. So, an experience is also like   what we're playing. So, somewhere in   here we will have uh settings.   So, I'm looking for   that option. No, that's not that's not   helpful.   I can just see if I can find the   settings this way.

  There it is. We'll just add our own   button. Then we don't have to figure it   out. And so save to experience settings.   Save to Roblox.   Oh, this is when we like publish it or   make it. So we're going to say go. And   I'm looking for that network setting.   So just a moment here.   I I don't see anything in here that   would say update existing experience.

  Maybe we need to save our game. So,   we'll go ahead and save this first. Save   file as. Just move this off to my   desktop here. And I'll call this place   one on my desktop. And then I'll go   here. Maybe this experience settings was   here this entire time. Oh, it's right   here. Save to access.

 I thought I saved   it. Oh, save it to actually Roblox. So,   I'm going to go ahead and save it. This   like actually publishes it, which is so   darn silly. But that's how you can only   use certain features, strange, strangely   enough. And so now we have more options.   So I go to security, allow HTTP   requests.   Yeah, it can open third party uh third   party tax. That's for sure.

 We're going   to go back over our plugins.   Click our button here. We'll go ahead   and make sure we're connected. So now   we're green across the board. Again,   never used this before, but it's not   like it's that hard, right?   And okay, I'm going to go try again. I   uh installed the plugin and   gave it access.   Okay.

 And so we're going to go ahead and   try this again. We'll say allow session.   Okay. And so we'll go back over to here.   So, what I'm looking for is did they   place that object anywhere?   Okay. Because if it was, it'd be in the   workspace. Oh, it's right there. Where   is it?   Why don't I see it? I think if I hit F,   I can jump to it. There it is.

 Oh, it's   right in the center. Okay. Um,   it didn't set the position. So, it did   insert a spear.   Okay. So, you did insert a spear.   Well, I actually don't know.   I'm gonna go delete this. I don't trust   it. Let's go try this again. So, I'm   gonna delete that sphere.   Okay. Uh, okay. I deleted it. Insert it   again.   Make it very large.

  And make it green.   Okay. It says 1010. Maybe I don't know.   It still didn't do what I thought it   would do. So, run it again.   And so, we'll go back over to here. Oh,   there's definitely a sphere if we scroll   on down.   Um, so definitely is inserting a sphere.   At least I think it is. We'll go back   over to here.

 Is there any other parts   it can do? How about a wedge? Okay,   insert a wedge.   um default position.   Okay, we'll say allow.   And the wedge has now been inserted. The   only thing I'm noticing is like it's not   changing the color or anything like   that. So like the the sphere color and   location didn't change   didn't change when you first inserted   it.

  Can you try updating the sphere?   We're also we're on mini low um by the   way, but it seems to be working pretty   well on mini low. And so here it's going   to try to set some properties.   Okay.   And it might be just the intelligence is   really really low and I haven't been   paying attention.   But we'll go back to here.

  Put F to go there. Nope. So it just   can't seem to update it. So it does   work. Oops. Allow.   Oh, no. There we go. It updated it. So,   there you go. That's an MCP server. And   we can use MCP MCP servers for all sorts   of things. You have different challenges   with different services. But, uh, yeah,   I thought that was kind of cool, but   there you go.

  Hey, this is Andrew. In this video, we   are going to take a look at sub agent.   So, what I'm going to do is I'm just   going to go back directory and we're   going to make a new directory. I'm just   trying to think of something that um   would be useful uh to build for this.   I'm going to go ahead and do we already   have a to-do app? I feel like that might   be something we already have.

  Not necessarily. So, go ahead and say   to-do app. And I'm gonna go ahead and   launch Codeex.   And I'm gonna go ahead and say I want   you to build a um to-do app.   Um I and I want you to use multiple sub   aents. So basically when you define what   you want then it will go ahead and   create those sub aents.

 I think that we   can define   um sub aents in here. So, can we define   multiple   possible sub aents?   I'm going to put this into plan mode.   Okay.   And by the way, I'm still on mini, so   that's probably not a great idea uh to   be on mini here. I'm just going to stop   that for a second. And we'll go back   over to here.

 We'll say model, and we'll   go back to default. And we'll go back to   medium.   Oops.   I want to be sure I'm on plan mode. I'm   on plan mode now. And we'll go ahead and   run that.   And so plan mode is going to figure out   what kind of stuff that we need. Be back   in just a moment. Okay. And so what I'm   hoping that it will do, it's it's   working here.

 But what I want it to do   is create some agents for us. Uh and so   here you can see there's like an   explorer, reviewer, a researcher. And so   that is what we are trying to do. And so   I'm going to say no. It doesn't   understand. No. Oh, sure. Yeah. Yeah.   Okay. So, we'll say uh you know vanilla   HTML   CRUD first.   And here it's talking about the sub   agents define several candidate agents   activate only when one is needed.

 Split   uh implemented aggressively across   multiple workers from the same time.   Maximal parallelism.   And so what I want is I wanted to create   the agents directory and then make a   bunch of TOML files for our different   agents.   And so here we go.   And it's making a full plan.   And so what I'm hoping that it's going   to do is go ahead and create   um   in the to-do app.

 Where is it? My to-do   app here.   We have a to-do app folder, right?   Simple to-do app. Here we go. Agents.   And here it says project   task manager.   Oh, no, no, no. That's the data. I was   going to say that looked uh very   familiar. So,   uh I mean we could go ahead and say yes,   but I'm not sure if it's going to do   this correctly.

  And the other question is like where am   I right now? I can't even tell.   So I'm going to back out here. LS type   in LA. I just want to know that we did   create that. I'm pretty sure we created   that directory though, right?   Well, it's definitely not here. So I   must be somewhere else. But as long as   it makes it, that's all I care about.

  And now it's spawning those agents. I   can't even see them right now. And so if   we go to agent here, we can see that it   created multiple workers.   Okay. But the only thing I can't tell is   like where where is this directory? I'm   going to stop this. I don't know where I   am.

 Oh, I'm one folder into my Roblox   folder over here. So we go here to app.   I'm bringing this up directory because   what I wanted to see while I was doing   this, I wanted to see did it actually   create   any of that stuff.   CD back and then we'll go back to our   to-do app here   and we'll type in codeex. Okay, so it's   fine if we quit out quit out of this.

  This is smarter to learn. So we'll go   ahead back into plan mode. I want to   create a team of agents um uh for   building a to-do app. Can you create me   multiple agents   um in the agents   in the uh   come on here? It's not it's not letting   me copy here, but we'll say codeex   codeex   um agents directory.   So, I'm not telling it to build the   to-do app and I'm just telling it to   focus on building those agents again.

  But you saw right away when we did that,   it started executing them, but it's not   pulling from existing ones that we had   there. I think it was literally spinning   up other ones.   I I don't know why this is in here.   I'm going to inspect the project.   Oh, maybe this was here before.   This isn't supposed to be here.

 I think   it's just when we dragged it over, it   didn't show up and now it is.   And it's it's uh looking around for too   much stuff. It really should just be   focusing on the 22 app. This is one   issue even with Claude is that um they   kind of get off track and they start   looking all over the place.   Uhhuh.   Here we'll say React this time.

 Um   specialized roles,   but I don't want it to create the app. I   just want it to create the agents.   Okay,   that's not what the doc shows. It shows   toml files.   So I'm just trying to click. I don't   know what happens. Sometimes my browser   freezes here. So I'm going to go ahead   and say no, stay in plan.   Um, they are toml files.

 This is for   codecs.   And all I want you to do   and um   so like it already made it's thinking   about making markdown files which is   fine but that's not that shouldn't work   right if it's toml files that it wants   we toml files it should get   so we'll just give it a moment here   doesn't know about itself isn't that   funny   there technically is a skill that we can   tell it to go look at um for uh   whatever.

 So create a project scope   codec sub agent under that location   using standalone files define which uh   each of them do.   Mhm. Default public conversations.   Yes. So it looks like it's just going to   implement the agent. So we'll go ahead   and do that. And so now we're setting up   explicit agents. We'll give it a moment.   Okay.   Um   and so we have a bunch here.

 We'll go   ahead and say yes.   And we're not executing any plan right   now. We are just   uh the patch fail because does not   exist. Of course this doesn't. You got   to make it.   And notice there's a codeex file. So   that kind of gets in the way.   Mhm. Yeah. See it? Yep. They got to move   it. There's nothing in that file.

 It's   just a placeholder file. Terrible   design. Again, don't know why they did   that.   It shouldn't take this long to make   them. I could be making them by hand   right now, but we will let it fiddle   around here. Oh, here we go. Yep.   Just delete it.   working around its own problems.   I will just delete it.   I'll just make the folder codeex.

 I'll   just make the folder agents.   Okay. Um,   we'll just say yes. I mean, I've already   deleted it, so this will be a non-issue,   but um   I'm hoping it figures out that   I made it for it.   Come on. So, this is frustrating, right?   So, almost to the point where I just   kind of want to copy paste this stuff   in.

 I'm just waiting for it to come   back. I don't want to interrupt it   because I don't want it to um   muck this up. I'm gonna wait for it to   come back here to me. Here we go. Now   it's back. Okay. So, we'll go ahead and   say yes. I think it knows now that the   uh it can make the files.   This is resolved. Yeah, I resolved it,   buddy.

 So, we're just waiting for those   to come here.   There we go. So, now we have our agents.   We have we have our config file. Also   max amount of threads, max amount of   depth. So how much at one time can work   and to what depth. Just want to check   the depth value here.   As my browser takes time to wake up. I'm   not sure why. So want to search depth.

  So we have concurrent open agent thread   craps uh thread cap sorry spawn agent   nesting.   So which allows a direct child agent to   spawn but prevents deeper nesting. Keep   the default unless you specifically   recursive delegation. So that sounds   like we could have a lot of   recursiveness there and so sticking to   one would probably be a good idea.

  One uh repo quirk came up. Yeah, that's   fine. Okay.   So,   we have multiple agents   and I want them to create a a to-do app.   Use JavaScript with the Myithil   JavaScript framework.   Um,   okay. keep it minimal   the app for a single company. Okay. And   so we'll go ahead and   I'm hoping that it understands that   we're defining those agents there.

 But   we're right now Oh, did I? Yeah, I'm in   plan notes. It's making a plan. It's   going to look at what agents we have   available.   And then what we're hoping to see is   them all execute and work together.   Okay.   So I'll just give it a moment here to   figure that out.   Okay. So it's back here and uh it has   questions for me.

 Shared company board   one shared team optimized for internal   coordination.   Sure.   Local storage sir.   I want   yeah internal tools. So we're basically   building a bespoke application folks.   We'll give it a moment here to see what   it comes back with. So it's creating a   plan. I'd like you to write out the   plan.   Uh let let's just let it rip. Okay.

 And   so now it's going to go rip. While this   is going, I'm going to see if I can copy   this content. Usually you can't copy   like this. It'll just kind of kill it.   If it does, that's totally fine. I don't   care. And I'm going to go ahead and just   make a new folder here, new file. We'll   call it plan.md.   I kind of wish these plans would just   save like this.

 There could be a plan   directory. This is something I didn't uh   check.   But as that is working, I'm just curious   if we go I'm already in the codeex   directory in the home directory here.   Whoops. Codeex. But I'm just curious   if it actually has a plans directory. So   that's something that Claude has is that   if you make a plan, it'll just save it   in a plans directory.

 It doesn't have it   here. And so we'll go back here. Um,   now is it actually using agents?   Stop. Okay, so it's not using agents.   And it's a good thing I saved the plan.   So I'm going to go here. Please use the   agents in the   please use a team of agents   to implement   the planned DD. I've defined   agents   in my   agents   folder.   Okay.

 And the reason I stopped it was I   didn't necessarily see Oh, but it was   exploring these files. So, maybe it was   going to do that,   but it didn't see it.   Okay.   So, we want to see those agents appear.   We'll wait a moment. Okay. So, just unp   I'm pausing here. So, I'm checking the   current repo. It's checking the toml   files.   Here we go.

 And so, now it's spawning   them up. So, spawned   uh this person worker. I wish I could   see exactly what it wh what it was   doing. We'll go ahead here and just say   sub agents.   So, I mean it's definitely doing   something. I just I can't tell which   agent is running.   So, this is more just to watch them.   I don't think it's using my uh   my sub agents here based on this.

 So   here   I'm splitting into two agent owned   chunks now for codecs toml files and one   for   what what do you mean a minimum company   but uh retargeting your infrastructure.   So it seems like it's working but it's   not actually leveraging   the actual workers.   Oh, here it goes. Updated the four agent   tombles under this   to target agreed minimal scope.

  Oh, so it literally adjusted them for   use.   Oh, that's interesting. I'm now waiting   on the app builder now and uh I'm   reviewing both the outputs together with   the lightweight validation.   Well, that doesn't sound good. We'll go   ahead and type in sub aents.   Updating agent toml targeted for the   scope. Important changes.

 That's not   what I asked it to do.   Ridiculous.   And so what I'm going to do is go back   to the main thread.   Are you using the agents in the TOML uh   uh the agents defined in the TOML files?   You updated them and then you have   another agent just building the site by   itself.   You were supposed to use the agents.   Okay. instead of submitting that.

  Uhhuh.   I'm going to go back over to our other   one,   this one here, and say, "All right, just   uh you're done. Report back. You're   done."   and then go back over to this one here.   So, what I'm trying to do   So, I'm trying to get it to   back to main.   It doesn't let me invoke the project   define codeex to it only spawns generic   workers. So I updated your toml agents.

  I delegated the available generic worker   and then only one worker. So if you want   to work done then it needs to happen in   a codeex runtime that loads project sub   aents.   I can either do the next step. What the   heck is it doing? Okay. Stop. Stop. What   do you mean?   I have defined a plan here. I have   defined agents   here.

 I need you to use these agents   as subtasks.   Can you do that?   I don't know why I couldn't do it. It   should be able to do it.   Okay. So, we will   give that a try.   Like, what's the point of us making   those files if it can't utilize them?   The plan isn't currently empty. Hold on.   I'll save it.   Okay, I got to stop it again. I didn't   save the plan.

  We're going to hit enter again. We're   going to give it another try. I notice   my usage hasn't really been going down,   which doesn't make any sense, but the   weekly's been going down, so I'm not   sure. Maybe this value is not updating,   but this is something. Oh, there we go.   Now it's showing the real value.

  I'm just going to confirm here. It says   uh each file defines the configuration   layers optional fields.   Uh-huh. Well, we made it based on that   definition.   Oh, so now it's spawning them. Perfect.   Okay. So now we're getting what we want.   Okay. And so we can go watch the product   planner.   And so the project planner is basically   doing implementation.

  Cool.   I'm not sure if this stuff came from   before and it's working from scratch,   but it is what it is.   If you want, I'll proceed by delegating   it monolithically. So, we'll go ahead   here. I go back to the agent to the main   task.   So, yes, I verified the plan. The the   the clean split is this.

 If you want me   to continue, I'll route. Yep. Just   continue till completion.   Okay. So now we are seeing uh task. I   wonder if this shows up as uh PS.   Nope.   Tasks. Nope. So it's just an internal   list that it's maintaining.   I'm not sure why we're having this MCP   issue here.   Like why is it even doing MCP? I'm not   sure why.

  Okay. Uh for some reason you were   uh launching MCP Roblox server which we   are not using   but I didn't mean to stop what it was   doing.   I mean please continue to manage   the agents till completion.   So I just kind of interrupted it while I   was in the middle of work.   And so I'm assuming they're just kind of   like hanging out here and they're   waiting for someone to talk to them.

 But   yeah, it it's clear that it's using um   the   uh coordinator pattern, which is what um   sub agents I mean it's using the   coordinator pattern. So I don't think   agents are talking to each other. I   think everything's being um funneled   between uh based on the main one here.   So we'll go back over to here.   I'll check the front page now.

 Then I'll   do a local pass to close anything the   agent miss before handling the finite   state to QA. And so it seems to be   working. I'm just going to pause here   and we'll let them go to town. Okay. And   either we'll hit up our usage or we'll   have a product or they'll ask us to do   something. All right, we are back.

 What   do we have? So complete uh through the   local uh flow setup. The app is now in a   better final state. Verification   completed. what I did not complete here.   I did not run a real browser for smoke   test. If you want the next step, I'll   pass it more over to this. Uh, no, I   think it's fine.

 We can go ahead and   just take a look at the codebase. Um,   and it's a very minimal application. So,   this should be something very easy for   us to test. I'm going to go ahead and   just reveal this in my file explorer.   And then I'm just going to bring over a   new tab here. And we'll drag it over.   See if we got something.   and   it does not work.

  And it's a security origins issue. So I   don't think it it can't work. What we'll   do here is just stop the application.   I'll do HP server. Okay. And then I'll   just go ahead and try this again.   Oh, look at that. Oh, we got ourselves a   little app. Hello. We'll add that task.   It's actually nice UI. I like it.

 It's   fine. It's mobile friendly. It's even   mobile friendly. So, there you go. That   was us using sub aents. A little   finicky, but we did get there in the   end. Okay. Cha chow.
