
The problem with programmatic SEO is   that a lot of people who try to do it   end up generating tons of useless, not   valuable pages that bloats their site.   And by tons, I mean thousands, bloats   their site, wastes their crawl budget,   and just ultimately ruins their SEO,   ruins all of their SEO.

 But I came   across this thread on X a few weeks ago   about Peter Level's programmatic SEO.   Peter Levelvels invented basically   invented indie hacking and the digital   nomad movement. I'm a huge fan of Peter   Levels and this thread broke down his   programmatic SEO really well. Peter   Levels even commented on it and said   this is exactly correct.

 This this   thread breaking down my programmatic SEO   is correct. And I'm going to share his   response after I share the thread. But   the difference is for Peter Level's   programmatic SEO, his pages are useful.   And I'm going to give I mean the thread   gives tons of examples and by the end of   it you'll have a pretty good   understanding of what programmatic SEO   when done properly looks like.

 So this   is from mephreb on X and the link to   this thread will be shared in the   description for this episode. It starts   if you think that Peter Levels is making   money from his ex audience you're so   wrong. It's programmatic SEO and his   execution is insane. And then four of   his businesses are shared remote. Okay.

  590,000 pages. Photo AI 61,000 pages.   Nomad List 20,000 pages. Interior AI   4,000 pages. What's programmatic SEO?   Programmatic SEO is about creating   thousands of high-value pages   automatically, each targeting a specific   keyword or location, so you rank for   everything people search. It's not just   keywords or locations.

 It's you have   templates and you have variables.   Typically the more val variables you   have the better and these templates are   filled in with the variables and then   you have dependencies based on the   variables. So things within your   template change based on the variables   and a lot of people now are adding in AI   as well based on the variables.

 So this   continues instead of writing posts one   by one you build a template and feed it   data to spin up thousands of pages that   each target a search query. That's how   Peter floods Google with 590,000   plus pages. And by the way, you want to   start if you're if you're trying   programmatic SEO, you don't just want to   put up 600,000 pages at once.

 You want   to go slow. You want to scale up slowly.   The thread continues. So, let's start   with remote. Okay. Remote. Okay. Has the   most indexed pages and the most traffic   of all Peter's products. You might think   it's just pages like remote tech stack   jobs, remote jobs in location, remote   tech stack jobs in location, but that's   only the tip of the iceberg.

 Peter built   a unique page for every company that   ever posted a job. Search remote jobs at   company name and chances are you'll see   remote, okay, on page one. And it   doesn't stop there. Every job seeker   also gets a profile page indexed by   Google. And I love this next part. It's   a win-win strategy.

 Recruiters find   talent. Workers get visibility. Remote,   okay, pockets the traffic and shows   Google the site is valuable. I'm going   to read this again. Recruiters find   talent. Workers get visibility. Remote,   okay, pockets the traffic and shows   Google the site is valuable. These pages   aren't pages with meaningless data   that's not going to help visitors.

 These   programmatic SEO pages are actually   useful. The pages are useful for the   intent of the searcher. It's that's   hugely important. And so many people   overlook that. I see that so often. If   you are doing any programmatic SEO   strategy, before you even do it, ask   yourself, are these pages going to be   useful and unique for searchers? So this   thread continues.

 Now imagine hundreds   of these niche pages, each pulling 50 to   100 searches a month. Individually   small, but together that's how remote   pulls around 21,000 Google visitors   every month. Now, let's check Photo AI.   Pulling in about $148,000   per month. 61,000 pages indexed. Ranked   for 7.8,000 keywords, 13.8,000 organic   traffic every month just from Google.

  Peter uses the same programmatic SEO   play. Take every scrap of data, generate   a page, let Google surface it to the   right user. Every category you can dream   of from anime characters to AI footpix   has its own landing page ready to   capture traffic and convert. And it   doesn't stop there. Photo AI also   creates idea inspiration pages for every   photo concept you might search for.

 You   might think that's it, but even user   generated images get their own page,   likely from free plan prompts, but all   get indexed. So trust me when I say he   squeezes every bit of structured and   unstructured data into new pages,   feeding Google an endless supply of   content. You know, I think it's also   important to note this thread at the   top.

 It claims he's not making money   from his ex audience. He is using his ex   audience to launch these products. When   he launches products, they get back   links. They get traffic. They get   branded searches. All of these signal to   search engines that the websites are   important, the the these projects are   important, and because they get more   domain authority and more engagement, it   makes more of their pages rank.

 So, if   you're trying to do programmatic SEO and   you have absolutely no engagement, no   links, start by getting engagement and   links first. Because if you want to put   up tons and tons of pages, many pages,   you're going to need a good amount of   engagement and links for that. and   branded searches.

 Branded search   searches as well. Thread continues. If   you've been following along, you can   already guess what's happening with   Nomad List, too. Every city and country   gets its own page. Looking for costs of   living, internet speed, weather. There's   a page for each same blueprint. Convert   every data point into a standalone page.

  Index it and let Google serve it to the   people searching. This simple play   drives around 8,000 Google visits a   month. traffic worth about $4.9,000   in ads. Even a 1% conversion means 80   paying customers every month straight   from organic search. Programmatic SEO   isn't just for Peter. If you have a   database or a user content, you can do   it, too.

 All right, so Peter Levels   commented on this thread. He said,   "Yes," with three exclamation points.   The original poster responds, "Wow,   didn't expect your reply. Huge respect,   legend." Peter levels comments again and   says, "Everyone thinks that it's   followers, but most of my traffic is SEO   and specifically programmatic SEO as you   found out, but his followers are still a   launching pad for these projects.

 It's   really important to note that he is   still launching them and getting links   and getting engagement to begin with and   that helps the SEO engine." So, somebody   asked this question too. Someone said,   "Genuine question. I'm new to this.   Doesn't programmatic SEO have a negative   impact on Google's ranking? And the   original poster said, as long as you're   answering the search intent, there is no   negative impact at all, which is   something that Peter is taking care of   perfectly. That comes back down to what   we were talking about at the beginning.   If you're putting up thin value, low   value programmatic SEO pages and lots of   them, that's going to hurt your website.   That's going to hurt your brand. It is   not worth it. If you're putting up tons   of pages that are not unique, that is   also going to hurt your brand. But if   you are putting up many unique, valuable   pages with programmatic SEO, it is   perfectly fine. And these pages are   going to be useful for searchers. So you   are helping people and at the end of the   day, that's what Google wants. A lot of

  people don't really, they're not harsh   enough when they evaluate their pages.   They don't ask themselves, is this   useful for our target searchers? But if   you are harsh in doing that and you   think about what the pages require,   chances are you're you you will actually   be able to make something that is great   for Google.

 So, I thought this was such   a fantastic thread. It had been on my   to-do for a while to share. It came out   on September 23rd, and I hope you like   it as much as I do it. Threads like   this, they they remind me why I love   search engine optimization so much. the   more traction and engagement and users   these sites get, the more amazing useful   pages they generate.

 That that is so   cool. So, yeah, this was awesome. In uh   in my SEO course, Compact Keywords, I   actually talk about photo AI a lot and   all of the different ways that photo AAI   can be making bottom offunnel SEO   landing pages. I I have that in the   finding compact keywords section. That   is a great section.

 and it's a 2-hour   section on how to find bottom ofunnel   purchase intent transactional keywords.   The whole course, if you haven't checked   it out, you're going to love it. It's   about doing SEO that actually gets   customers, users, and leads. That is at   compactkeywords.com. And this is episode   830.   Oh my god, 830 of my daily digital   marketing podcast.

 830 days in a row   doing this show. And I'm recording right   now. I don't have a ton of time, so I'm   recording at a cafe. But if you watched   on YouTube, thank you so much for   watching. If you listened on Spotify or   Apple Podcasts, thank you so much for   listening. I will talk to you again   tomorrow.
