
[MUSIC PLAYING] BECCA XIONG: We are so, so lucky to be here tonight to hear from Michael Skok. He's a famous investor and founder, CEO, founder, had successes with many, many startups that really has great impact on the world. And he's here to show us how to tell that story about their venture story in the way that communicates impact the best.

And so we're really lucky to have him here. And I can also tell you that his workshops are highly interactive. So please, everyone, get ready to do a little bit of work and get a lot out of telling your story right. MICHAEL SKOK: So first of all, thank you very much for all coming here this evening. It's a dark winter night out there.

And actually, that's probably where I'm going to begin. But let me first tell you what to expect. We are going to get into the whole essence of storytelling. And of course, the most boring thing I could possibly do is give you a lecture about telling stories. So I'm going to start by telling a story. So with that, I'd like to dim the lights, just turn them off.

So if I could tell any story for any reason, it would always be for the same reason. I hope to touch you and make sure you feel something in you that makes you believe in something that you want to do for your reasons. So how do we do that? That's really what this is all about, mastering the art of moving people to action through strategic narrative design.

That's a lot of words. Let's actually see how it works in practice. First of all, let me set the stage. This founder, and it's a true story, by the way, or at least based on a true story, dramatized a little, came from outside the US, on a student visa, came to Harvard, and was looking to build a business.

But this was their family savings. It was so important to them that they had given up everything else. And the family was literally betting on them, becoming the future of the family. They would send money home, for example, just to keep their family afloat. So this was really important to this founder. And with that many years of work went into her process of building her venture.

And it was a very exciting venture. Here's the good news. She had a stage. She stepped up to that stage. She'd prepared for months. Her technology was outstanding, a genuine breakthrough, something we don't see very often. And her team was full of world class experts, who not only knew the subject, but in many instances, were considered the subject matter experts in the field.

So all the things that were set for success and the opportunity was addressing, while initially looking like it was a little small, quickly turned into something very big, because she realized that this was a technology that could be applied in many different ways. And particularly, when AI came along, it gave her a massive opportunity to expand and to also move very fast.

That's the good news. So she steps on stage. She has 60 seconds to capture everybody's attention. And everything depends on what happens next. Unfortunately, she started out with, we're an AI powered platform that leverages machine learning to optimize. And I don't need to tell you the rest. The pitch fell flat.

The investor started checking his phone. The key person she was trying to recruit, the talent thought, not for me. And most sadly, actually, of all, the customer in the room thought, I don't want to buy technology. And they were gone too. So what's going on here is not unusual. So often, everything hangs on a story.

In this case, she couldn't tell. She wasn't experienced in it. She's an engineer. Many engineers don't have a background in storytelling and pitch-building. They're very talented at what they do. But this is just not a skill you learn in engineering school, or in design school, or in many other schools, law school, all the Harvard colleges that come to the i-Lab, I experienced this with.

Years of work goes into building the business. But in that moment, where it's really critical to capture the attention of everybody, it unfortunately doesn't play out that way. So what's the real problem behind this? Well, I think you've all seen this movie. This is the example I see all the time in the i-Lab.

People are really good. Founders are fabulous at drawing how things work, why things are so unique, what the technology is behind them. That is such a breakthrough. But they confuse the narrative by putting data instead of drama. It features instead of feeling. They critically also make the mistake of being the hero in the story, rather than enabling the potential customer, or the recruit, or the investor to experience the story where they are the hero in the story.

So it's really bass ackwards. And unfortunately, they can't hold attention because of it. So what could be an amazing venture? Often just dies. And these stats are very real. 70% of the time, when people can't tell the right story, and we see it with our companies all the time, it means you lose the talent.

You don't manage to attract the person you deserve to have on your team, because they can't understand what's in it for them. Worse still, the most important thing you can build in the early days is traction with customers. And 85% of the customers just walk away, because they don't understand what's actually going to help them transform their business, not hear what you think is going to be great about your business.

And finally, investors end up funding weaker in some cases companies, 60% of the time, simply because we don't hear the right narrative. And that worries us on many levels, because we know, guess what I just said, that people who can't tell the right story won't attract the right talent. They won't win the customers.

And they also, of course, won't win the support of investors to get behind them. How sad is this? I don't want this to be any of you. storytelling is therefore, not to me about just pitching. It's a survival skill. It's what it takes to get beyond the great idea and turn it into a great business. But more importantly, along the way, get the best possible support you can along the way.

That's why this is so critical. And I want to look in the mirror for a second and tell you, I've taught here for now, nearly 13 years. And we have never taught this skill. We have pitch competitions all the time. We have demo days all the time. We encourage you to come and grab us as investors, and give us the elevator story.

Whatever it is we do, it's usually about one thing, which is trying to help you pitch what you think is what your venture is doing, as opposed to thinking about how do we turn this into something that the audience really cares about. But that's got to change. So how are we going to change it? Well, the first thing is, we have to all recognize that this is a tension point, because founders really want to build the great technologies.

No problem. Let's enable that. But let's close this gap between what you can build and how you can communicate that and the value of it, and do that time after time after time with any audience for any length of time, and very importantly, with the depth of feeling that convinces your audience to actually do something about it.

So why hasn't this worked before? There are hundreds of books you can read on this. I actually did this research over many years, as I learned to do the perfect pitch here, something I've given at the i-Lab, and my partner, Lilly, has given with me at business school for years. So we've all read these books, great books like stories that stick.

But there are so many of them that most founders just do not have time to go and figure out which of these frameworks is right for them. And most of them, as a result, just wing it. And of course, as you just saw, they fail. So there's some good news here. There is a pattern. It doesn't matter whether you're talking about Aristotle, or you're talking about Ted Talks, or you're talking about the great billion dollar fundraise pitch.

They all have some incredibly important elements within them. And frankly, this pattern is been hiding in plain sight until now. So that's the opportunity today. There's really no reason why any one of you couldn't learn this pattern. And in fact, when I figured it out, it was only two frameworks. And that's all we're going to do today, two frameworks.

And you should be able to remember them by the end of the day, because I'm going to try to test myself on whether my story today works for you. And if it doesn't, I want you to tell me, because the best way to make a story better is to get critical feedback. So you're extremely important to me today. And as my audience, that's my goal, enable you to be successful storytellers.

So let's get going. First thing is, these two frameworks could be learned in minutes. And in fact, my goal is for you to be able to recall these in minutes and tell them to somebody else in minutes. They should be that simple, because I'm setting myself up for failure when I say, that's simple in two minutes, but we'll see.

OK. So we know we've got at least seven teams here. All of you have a story to tell. From this point, there is a very clear resolution. And I just actually gave it to you, because STORY, literally, is the first framework, S-T-O-R-Y. Can you remember that? What's the framework? AUDIENCE: STORY. MICHAEL SKOK: OK.

Test 1 achieved. What the hell does it mean? Well, it means getting you to yes. It means that if I tell the story in the right way, you will care enough, believe in it, and then ultimately say yes to whatever it is I'm proposing in this story, whether or not, for example, for talent to join you or for a customer to start trialing you or buying you, or for an investor to engage with you, for example, to get on the investment track with you.

We've got to get them to yes. And just to give you the sense of what I just did, I just built a stage for you. I told you about the founder. I built some tension and explained the problem. I then set out the opportunity if we could just solve it with some frameworks. And then I said what the resolution was, which is a STORY framework, which I'm now telling you, that will move people to yes.

By the end of today, not only will you know the framework of STORY, but you've got whiteboards. You can start building yours. And we've got people here to help you. I will put my hand high for that, to coach you through building your STORY. Not difficult, right? What's the framework? AUDIENCE: STORY. MICHAEL SKOK: STORY.

What does it mean? Let's go through it. It means setting the stage, just the way I did, of the founder STORY of where she was coming from, what was important to her, why this was so critical to her, why this 60 seconds really mattered. The tension of, wow, incredible technology, great team, and an amazing ability to go after a big market with a breakthrough.

But why didn't it play out? Well, that's the opportunity. Obviously, she needed somebody to help her with the storytelling, not the pitching, the storytelling that actually flows through that pitch. And the resolution, of course, is the STORY framework itself that will move people to yes. S-T-O-R-Y. It's just not that complicated.

Great. So thank you for listening. I now want to ask some questions, because this is not about me telling stories to you, it's about me getting your stories out. So why are you here? I'm just going to go around the teams. First, the kinds of questions I want to know-- why do you want to tell a story? Is it to pitch? Who is it to pitch to? For what? What do you want them to say yes to? And how do you get them to yes with your story is where we will go after this.

But let me just get straight to it. OK. Kuljit, tell me a little bit about Classy AI, and why you're here today, and what it is that brings you to the workshop. AUDIENCE: I'm building Classy AI, because I've seen firsthand the way that AI tools today are failing students. They give answers, but they don't build understanding.

Students are losing their ability to reason. And universities are having academic integrity crisis. Students don't need another answer-generating machine. They need something that teaches them how to generate answers. And that's why I'm building Classy AI. It's an ethical AI learning companion that meets students where they are and guides them through the learning process, and doesn't just give them an answer.

It strengthens reasoning instead of replacing it. MICHAEL SKOK: I think you did a fantastic job. Now, the question is, are you pitching or are you telling a story? AUDIENCE: I think I'm pitching. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. So you have a pitch, that's great. By the end of this evening, I'd be shocked if you didn't. We have to turn that into a story.

Who is this story for? Who do you need to tell this story to? AUDIENCE: Students. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. And what do you want the students to do? What's the action you want them to take? What do you want them to say yes to if they believe in your story? AUDIENCE: Commit to the hard work of actually learning. MICHAEL SKOK: OK.

So commit to learning. What a great, noble cause. I'm going to have to use your platform, I can tell. Great. And I think we've got all the key elements out there. Great. Thank you very much. So thank you, Kuljit. And by the way, I want to applaud our students for doing this. This is not easy, just coming in and being cold called, and jumping up, and being asked to tell a story.

I won't cold call the next person. I just want to give somebody a chance to speak. So which of the other teams would like to share the who, what, why, when, and what moves them to yes? Go ahead. AUDIENCE: Yeah. So my name is Miruna. And I want to tell a story, because I want to bridge the gap in college access.

And to whom? And to investors, to make them believe that they can actually make money while bridging educational gaps. So social impact for good can actually make money. And I want them to say yes to me. Yeah, I'm the right person to do this. MICHAEL SKOK: You want them to say yes to you, which is great. Say yes to you.

Thank you, Miruna. And just remember, your venture name is called Advanced Link, right? Great. So one of the things I want to share is, we've got two great investors here. And I want to make sure that they're able to participate this evening. Whenever anybody asks an investor question, I'm not here as an investor today.

I'm here as your mentor and supporter, and trying to help you get your venture out. Yes, I've been an investor for whatever, too long, 23, whatever it is, years. But I'm not here in that role today. So I'd like to introduce Lily, who's my partner, and actually now looks after underscore VC and runs the firm.

So I'd like Lily to answer the question of what does it take, Lily, for you to get to yes? What makes you say yes to the person? OK. AUDIENCE: Hi, everyone. Nice to meet you. The thing that gets us to a yes, the most important thing is the team. And the thing on the team is, I need to understand, why you? Why are you uniquely qualified, or well-positioned, or more passionate than anybody else to go after this and make it a reality? Because it's never been easier to start a company than it is right now, in some ways. And so I have to get to conviction that this is the team that's going to be the one who can make it a reality. So for me, it's very, very people and team-driven. And so what I'm looking for is the "Why you?" in your story. MICHAEL SKOK: And is there a particular attribute? If somebody came to you and said, I think I've got the only perspective on this, is that a unique insight that you're looking for or is it a particular experience they've had? What is it that says, OK, this person over the other person?

AUDIENCE: We typically break it down into a couple of attributes. And it's interesting. I would say, if you had asked me that a couple of years ago, I'd say, what was it in your experience or your very specific domain expertise? So have you been building in this industry for a very long time. And that's earned you a unique insight.

I think that's still somewhat true in certain industries, but nowadays, I actually think there's some raw attributes that you can have that actually help distinguish those who excel versus those who don't. One that we look for is aptitude, which is pace of learning. I actually think, now, in today's environment, that's one of the most important attributes that we look for, which is, how quickly are you learning? And how quickly are you applying the things that you're learning to your venture and to your progress? The other one is attitude, which is, do you have this deep, deep grit and determination? One of my partners the other day used to rip a hole out of the sky. And it's just such a powerful visual of like, that's the attitude you have of, I need to go solve this problem. I can't sleep until I do. The other one is ability. So what is it in your background that shows evidence that you'll be able to go after this and do it successfully? So whether you've worked in this industry or you've done a gazillion interviews in this space, or whatever it might be, but what in your background shows that you have this entrepreneurial spirit

and can execute? One of the other ones is authenticity. So are you self-aware? Do you know yourself? Do you know what you're good at? Do you know what you're weak at? And what do you need to be surrounded by? And so how well do you yourself? And then the last one is what we call a tractor. So can you attract great people around you? And actually, the storytelling piece of this is super powerful, which is, can you attract a cofounder, or that early hire, or that early customer, or that early advisor? So do you have the ability to tell the story to get people excited? So those are the things we look for. MICHAEL SKOK: So thank you, Lily. We, as a team, sat down for many years to discuss what are these 5As. But they've evolved. And they continuously change. And people, for example, bring up different things. But one thing has never changed, and I'm going to quote this now, is, when we meet somebody who is literally willing to rip a hole in the sky, and why I love something like that as a phrase is, it's visual. It's visceral. It makes you think differently. It makes you feel like, wow, "What is this person going to do to make a dent in the universe?", was the other classic phrase. Those expressions are what is so important. So for example when, Miruna, you go out

to pitch investors and tell your story. Don't be nicely guarded about what it is you're thinking about doing. Listen to what they are looking for. Not every investor is going to look for that. But if you were pitching Lily, you now know it. And you can go figure out how you address these things, which obviously, I know I've worked with you before.

You have a lot of these attributes, which is great, but you can give her what she's looking for to feel convinced that she should work with you, that you can get her to a yes. Does that make sense? That's what storytelling is all about. If you notice, Lily didn't mention anything about the company or what you do, or she even made the point about experiences becoming less important, because there's many different ways to gain experience today.

But if you're the kind of person that's willing to go change the world, you can do what you need to do to move an investor. Yes. So I've already given you the STORY arc. And you, I'm sure, have all heard this, but the arc of a STORY is basically how it starts at the beginning. And it takes you on this journey, all the way to the place where, hopefully, as we achieve what we are looking for, people say yes to whatever it is you're offering or whatever it is you're asking, whether you're trying to get students to learn or whether you're trying to get investors to invest. There's a yes in every STORY. And let me make sure you know this. If you don't have a yes, why are you telling the STORY? I mean, sure, maybe you're in the entertainment business, but not here at the i-Lab or at HDS. We're in the business of trying to help you get your venture off the ground. So you better have a yes. So today, we're going to talk a lot about this too. What does that mean? And that's where the second framework comes in.

So let me keep going. Now, those of you who have whiteboards, I will say the best thing you can do is start to visualize your whiteboard as this arc. And I particularly put it on a photograph as a background for a reason, which is, this is a journey. And we want you to think about your journey about, how are you going to move the audience, not you, remember, the audience is the hero, through this journey, so that they feel like they can see what matters, and what the opportunity is, and where there's a real big tension point? And by the way, that's the big one is, how do you build enough tension? People want to listen to you. Hopefully, I gave you a little bit of a sense of that with my opening. And then obviously, you can introduce your resolution. By the way, and this is the most important thing I wanted to point out here, you cannot skip the steps. If you go, for example, from building the stage to saying what the answer is and the resolution, you just blew up the number 1 thing in storytelling, which is, there's a road. You don't just leap over things.

And if you do, you'll suffer the consequences. You'll lose your audience. You'll lose the moment. You'll lose the ability to move them to yes. So there's a reason why this is called an arc. It's literally an arc. And the reason I put a rainbow up there is because, guess what's at the end of a rainbow? Yes. No, not a pot of gold.

Much more important. It's a yes. All right. So here we go. Let's get into this workshop now. Next thing I want to do is to understand what the yes is. And that's where the second framework comes in. This is the ABC framework. Why ABC? Because it's that simple. So you haven't forgotten the first framework, I hope.

What is it? AUDIENCE: STORY. MICHAEL SKOK: OK, good. We're doing well. We're still in the two-minute zone. Took a minute on that one. Let's see whether you can remember ABC within one minute. So ABC is very simple. It says, I want to design backwards from the outcome I want. Not forwards, backwards. If I don't know what the yeses I want, why am I telling the story? Why am I taking somebody's time if I'm not clear what I'm asking for? So start with what the action is you want them to take today, when they hear the story. Let me be clear about what mine is for you. I want you to take this ABC framework and start to apply it immediately that you start work after this framework, after this session. And of course, we'll be practicing it here too. Why do I want you to do that? Well, I want you to believe that that is the way in which you and your venture are going to be more successful. But you, when you're telling this, have got to figure out, what does your audience have to believe before they will take action?

For example, if they think you're an incredibly risky venture, I can tell you, that's the number 1 reason that startups don't get traction. It's not because your product is not great, it's because you're probably going to displace somebody else's product, and workflow, and all the people's training that goes behind it if you're in B2B.

Or if you're in B2C, you're competing for a finite amount of budget that somebody has in a family to spend on anything. So you can't just expect them to believe in you. I'm sorry, to act on buying your product, unless they believe this is really going to change their life, or change their business, or change their world, or change their education, or change their medical outcome, as in the case of what Oxyverse is doing.

So we have so many reasons why this is important, but it doesn't even get going, unless they care. But if nobody cares about education, or if somebody doesn't care about health, or if somebody isn't interested in learning, why are you telling them a story? So this is super important. This is why we have to spend time right upfront, thinking about, well, who's the audience? And what do they care about? So you design backwards from what you want to do, but you've got to build it up in these three stages-- A, B, C. What action do you want? How are you going to get them to believe in you? And why do they care? Now, I'm just going to joke here for a second, because I told you, I wasn't a VC today, so I can joke at VCs. We are great at telling you, your pitch is easy. You just have to say, why you? Why this? And why now? Sounds great, right? Who's that for?

Why this? Why you? And why now? What's great for a VC? They like cut it short answer. But do you think a customer is really going to focus on why you, why this, why now? No, they're interested in, what are you going to do for them? What do they care about? So let me pause there for a second. What do customers care about? Anybody? David, what do your customers care about? ROI, great.

Makes life easier. Saves time. Excellent. So customers have all these things that David just said. They want to save time. I'm going in reverse order. They want an ROI. AUDIENCE: Makes life easier. MICHAEL SKOK: Make life easier. Yeah, everybody wants an easier life. Nobody wants more complexity, might be simpler, et cetera.

So where does why you, why this, why now talk about any of those things? Well, it could do, if you tell the right story, could tell all of those things. But what they care about is exactly what you just said, David. There's one I'll definitely make sure we get to today. If you're a business, and you take on any new product, service, or expense, or for example, time-consuming change, you better have an advantage out of it.

Otherwise, why are you doing it? If it slows you down, and it doesn't accelerate you past your competitors, or get you moving in a direction where you have some advantage, why would you do it? So my A word for you on this one is one word, customers want advantage. I started the whole workshop series we now called Startup Secrets with one tagline, unfair competitive advantage.

That is what startup secrets is all about for you. We are trying to give you unfair competitive advantage. That's meaning you as the founders. But so you can transfer that to the customers and give them that feeling. You do that. You start talking to customers about, what would make an unfair competitive advantage for you? They'll listen.

Because that's what they care about. Next step is, how do you get them to believe in it so they'll take action? But if you don't get this right, no chance. So you design backwards from the outcome, but you build up from C to B to A. All right. What does ABC stand for? AUDIENCE: Act, believe, care. MICHAEL SKOK: Thank you, Logan.

I can always count on you. AUDIENCE: Taking notes. MICHAEL SKOK: [CHUCKLES] All right. Did it take more than 30 seconds to learn? AUDIENCE: No. MICHAEL SKOK: No. These are the only two frameworks, believe it or not, you actually need to put your whole STORY arc together. Would each of you, who've got a whiteboard, just pause for a moment and get C, B, and A, or you can do A, B, and C, whichever is easier to you, down the left hand side of your board.

So you're ready to go, because we're going to start putting some actions on here. For each of your ventures, I want you to put an A up, like, what is your ask? So Logan, for example, just to help get the process going, because I know you're very good. What does career span want as an ask? What are you looking for from your story? AUDIENCE: We want founders to secure their next hire using career span.

MICHAEL SKOK: Fabulous. Let's get that up there. So now, you can get a very good sense. That's a very clear ask. She knows who it is she's asking, the founders. And she knows what it is she's asking from them. So everybody take a moment to just get your A, act, ask up. So what's your ask? AUDIENCE: So my ask is, I want enterprises to deploy an AI security solution that is mathematically sound.

MICHAEL SKOK: So you want them to deploy it right away. AUDIENCE: Well, we've already made it. All they have to do is integrate what we've made. MICHAEL SKOK: So do they first deploy it or do they first integrate it? AUDIENCE: They first integrate it, I guess. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. So what's the first ask you have for them? AUDIENCE: First ask is that they have faith in the mathematically sound intervention we've made? MICHAEL SKOK: So that's a belief.

So that's great. Let's get down here. AUDIENCE: OK. MICHAEL SKOK: So we can put that down there. Belief is, you can say it in your words not mine. AUDIENCE: Faith in it. MICHAEL SKOK: So faith is good. Yeah. And then you can full in the detail. They need to have faith in you, for sure. Divina, you've worked with me before.

You be the challenger here to see if you can get Chelsea to refine her ask and what the very first step should be. Because right now, she has deploy. And we just established that there's some integration that has to happen even before deploy. So what is the first ask she has once she tells her story? Make sense? Go ahead.

All right. How are you doing over here? AUDIENCE: All right. I liked what you said about the unfair advantage. I might just copy you. MICHAEL SKOK: You're welcome. AUDIENCE: Yeah. MICHAEL SKOK: So your first task is founders to use career spanned for their next hire. OK. What would be the first step they would take? Would they immediately go to using it? AUDIENCE: No.

We have either a 30-minute demo of their first 100 candidates are free. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. Excellent. All right. I'm going to borrow on that for a second. AUDIENCE: A mental ask, in some sense. What's the next step? What's the next step after that? Is that what you're getting at? MICHAEL SKOK: And your name is? AUDIENCE: Adam.

MICHAEL SKOK: Adam. Yeah. Great question. So Adam just asked me a great question. You carry on if you want, but I'm going to talk to the broader audience. He asked me a great question, and it's come up a few times. Is this the ask that you take as the next step or is this the ultimate ask? You could make it either, but you need to know, at the end of the story, that they're going to take that action, they're going to move on it.

And if it's a very big leap, like for example, I challenge Chelsea, she said she wanted enterprises to deploy her solution right away. But then she gave a little clue, and she said, well, first of all, they have to integrate it. I didn't start pulling on that thread. But my guess is that if you're dealing with enterprises, there's even more than that.

First of all, they're going to have to figure out, for example, whether it actually can integrate. So they're going to have to, for example, validate whether it's actually feasible and then many other things. My point is, you might want to break your ask down into steps, so that they're very actionable, and that somebody can actually do what you're asking them to do.

AUDIENCE: That makes sense with the learning. MICHAEL SKOK: Hello. How are you doing today? AUDIENCE: I'm doing well. How are you? MICHAEL SKOK: Great. So 10:12. I loved reading your story, by the way. Space habitations. Wow. Inspiring. So what is the first thing you want? And your audiences, you're going after investors first? AUDIENCE: Yes.

MICHAEL SKOK: OK. You want them to decide to invest in your company. Do you think they'll make that step right away? AUDIENCE: Definitely not. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. So what is the first step you want them to take? AUDIENCE: The first step is to consider investing on something. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. And when you heard Lily talk about what people look for, what do you think is the first thing they need to believe? AUDIENCE: The first thing they need to believe is that, probably, that I'm capable of leading a company to success. MICHAEL SKOK: Great. Let's get that done. Now, in your case, by the way, I skipped to B, because once you have that piece, that they believe in you, and that you're capable of leading a company, then it's much easier to get the A, ask. AUDIENCE: Yes. OK. MICHAEL SKOK: What I heard lots of people do, which was great, was to immediately think about what's the ultimate ask. So I think the first learning I had was to break that down, to make sure that you're thinking about, yeah, the ultimate ask is great. But what is the step they can take today? And I should have really made it absolutely clear, that that's the first thing you want. Asking people to make big leaps means more risk and is unlikely to get you action right away.

And remember, the A in this framework is Action. It's not just a nice to do thing. You want them to take action. And you want to be concrete and specific. And I picked some examples here, because they're the kinds of things that might be appropriate, depending on your venture. It might be, I need to get a donor to write their first check, not fund the whole venture, but just give you enough to see what flows through the venture.

Or it might be, schedule a pilot for Q2 if you're in an enterprise, like for example, if you're Dorcha, and you're trying to get your new security product in. If you're trying to get talent, it might be, obviously, specifically getting them to join you. But it might be something even more basic, like come and experience our company, come to an offsite with us, or come to a lunch and learn, so you can see what our team does.

We would always do these kinds of things. So people could experience the culture first. Or it might be just make an introduction, because sometimes, that's as important the first step as anything, is to get to the right person, so you can move your venture forward. So that's the A. Now, a lot of you already skipped on to B.

So let's get there. I love the word B for a lot of reasons, because "believe" is a strong word, but it's also the bridge. It's the bridge between whatever it is you're giving people as an ask and the conviction to actually get to do it. Remember, this is what must your audience believe for that action to feel smart, safe, and exciting.

I picked those words for a reason. People respond to those feelings more than they do to pitches. If I feel really unsafe or really nervous about this person, do you think I'm going to move forward with them? No. I mean, it's just like, I won't go to the extreme on this. But I went on my first blind date. I happened to meet my wife.

23 years later, I still feel safe with her. I instantly felt safe with her. But if I hadn't, I wouldn't have gone on even a second date. This is not dissimilar to a lot of things you're trying to do. If you've got a consumer app, that's the kind of feeling you want. Now, if you're trying to make sure, for example, somebody is getting advantage, and you're dealing with an enterprise, you want to make them feel really smart.

You're going to make them, Chelsea, looking at you when I say this, a better CISO, Chief Information Security Officer. If they, as a CISO, feel like you're going to make them smarter and more able, and give them more time, all the things that David was talking about here for customers, saving time, or giving them an ROI, or making it easier for them on their life, and ultimately giving them some competitive advantage, which Logan, you picked up on.

And they believe that that's what you can do, and that you can solve that problem that they have, and that this is worth joining if you're a talent, then guess what, they're likely to have the bridge built to take the action. So that's what B is believing about. Logan, may I pick on you since you did pick up on competitive advantage? Tell me about your belief.

AUDIENCE: I'm conflating believe and care, probably because I went ahead and did this without listening to the bridge. MICHAEL SKOK: So nothing new then. [LAUGHTER] AUDIENCE: Because I think I meant more for the feelings with my care. But basically, I want founders to believe that our unique technology and our unique approach will give you an unfair advantage in the talent wars that are coming in the startup space.

As Lily said, if anybody can build a company and anybody can build a business, then the competition for real talent is going to be the thing that makes the biggest difference in your success. MICHAEL SKOK: Right. One of the things that's important is, you are trying to give people a feeling that you will give them that unfair advantage.

How would you do that? AUDIENCE: So that's when I think I went to see a little bit more. So I want to show people that you'll-- I want them to feel reassured, because they can see the depth in an X-ray vision into a candidate without sacrificing. This is a whole other scary prospect in the future, but know that their real talent, without sacrificing any of your time, your money, or your momentum.

And I think that last piece is critical. Having mis-hired in the past, I know firsthand, how painful it is, both for the team, for your runway, and everything that goes into a bad hire, how devastating that can be for progress in your startup. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. So let's give a little bit of context here to set you up for success.

So Logan, who's been in our workshops before, does a wonderful job of actually telling a STORY. So for career span, she's trying to help people get hiring right in the post GPT era, in other words, in the AI era, which I think, every business process has to have a, we used to be this, but in the AI era with this.

So you've got a natural built-in before and after opportunity. You've got a why now built in, because AI is disrupting everything. Fair enough? OK. So why should they believe in you, is a first step before they'll take any action. But you went to care, and so I'm going to go there now. Care is actually a feeling state.

And for example, in a hiring organization, you just brought up some great examples. So let's just talk about them. People care because they make a mis-hire What are the consequences? AUDIENCE: Myriad. Money lost. Often, if you've used a recruiter, that fee is gone. Time, often, you lose team, I guess, dynamics in many ways.

MICHAEL SKOK: Yeah. You might have a cultural challenge. You lose momentum. I mean, I could go on, and on, and on. And I'm sure, you could. So what I'd encourage you to do is get people, first of all, in the care, to think about, what are all the risks associated with a mis-hire? What are all the consequences? What are all the things that will leave them in a very different spot, worse than they were before if they get this wrong? So there's nothing wrong, by the way, with-- I won't call it fear, uncertainty, and doubt, because it's a bit of a cliche, but there's nothing wrong with raising the stakes. We're going to talk about that. That's the S in STORY for what people are experiencing. And the stakes are very, very high for hiring. In fact, I would be as blunt as to say this. The most important capital in a venture is not venture capital, it's human capital. So you've got very high stakes. Does that help you? AUDIENCE: Yes. MICHAEL SKOK: OK, great. So now, for the rest of you, thank you, Logan, that was terrific. For the rest of you, let's get on to the C.

The C is this care that why this really matters, not to you, the founder, but to them. Super important you make that switch. But once you understand that, the most important thing to understand is, why do they care? What keeps them up at night? What would make them feel like the hero in this story that you're telling? And what future are they trying to create? And what is that you're going to bring them that gives them a feeling like you might actually get them there? That's the belief part.

But in the care part, they've really got to actually feel like, OK, this is going to make a difference. Now, because Harvard has very, very funny set of stories about this, the number 1 set of apps that have failed in all of our classes, and stories, and everything else are what? Dating apps. AUDIENCE: [LAUGHTER] MICHAEL SKOK: Don't bring us a dating app, because it's a very tough sell.

But actually, people really care about finding their date and finding the right person, which is why there are so many dating apps and why we get them over and over again. But I'm actually going to skip that point and make the key thing, which is, people need to care as much as they do about finding the right date.

That's the visceral reaction you want. They've got to feel like, wow, you are coming to me as a potential match for me in my business. And if I make a decision to work with you, it's probably going to be significant if I'm an enterprise or even if it's an individual. Just taking some time out of my day to download an app, whatever the app is, and actually use it, and try it, and spend some money on it, that's meaningful to me.

So do I really want to do that? Unless, I feel like you are understanding my world, understanding what I'm experiencing as pain. And you're showing me that you care enough to help me. But that's all got to come from their perspective, not yours. OK. Let's spend two more minutes to finish off your ABCs. And I'll walk around.

And anybody who wants to raise their hand to get some extra help, please just raise it. I'll come over and help. AUDIENCE: Yes. I think my C is, AI can generate more attacks than engineers can keep up with. So your current security team is not necessarily well-versed in AI. And so they're having to teach themselves as fast as possible, but they can't keep up.

And so what Dorcha does is that we have already created-- MICHAEL SKOK: I'm going to pause you. So you have fallen into a pitch. AUDIENCE: Yeah. MICHAEL SKOK: Yeah. But it's OK. Everybody does this. This is our fault. We're supposed to be here to help you get beyond that. So why do people even care about security? AUDIENCE: Well, for example, we can use Stripe.

So when you're at Stripe, and you're a security engineer, you're having to secure payments. MICHAEL SKOK: No, no. I'm going to go all the way back. If I attack your house, do you care? AUDIENCE: Yes, of course. MICHAEL SKOK: Why? AUDIENCE: Because I don't let any of my things stolen. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. So that's the emotion we're looking for in care.

AUDIENCE: Yeah. MICHAEL SKOK: The emotion is, you want to keep somebody or their business safe. AUDIENCE: So you want to keep AI. MICHAEL SKOK: No, it's nothing to do with AI. Forget the technology. This is a story you're telling. Your pitch is going to be easy. AUDIENCE: Yeah. MICHAEL SKOK: You've got amazing technology.

Well, I can tell, you're an amazing entrepreneur. The question is, why do people care? Just think about that for a second. Why do people care about feeling they are secure? So the most fundamental human need, nobody I know doesn't want to feel secure, personally, and in a business, and in work, and in the things they're doing.

Try crafting your C as something people care about that keeps them safe. And then you can go on to say, it's getting worse to build tension, so we'll come into that in STORY, because AI is causing these attacks to be even faster and more aggressive than they were before. Make sense? Now, you're starting to build the tension.

I've given you a bit of a clue on your STORY. AUDIENCE: OK. MICHAEL SKOK: So Chelsea is building Dorcha. And it's security as a service. And you said for AI. AUDIENCE: Yes. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. And I definitely very much appreciate the way Chelsea engaged with me on this. She wrote AI models. Actually, I'll summarize it.

I is causing security to come on thicker and faster as a problem, because AI is getting more aggressive in the security space with attacks. And obviously, it's potentially infinitely scalable. So you can get attacked at high speed on a very automated basis. It's very scary, frankly. So what should people care about? Should they care about AI? Should they care about how technology? What is the feeling that they're going to have if they don't have protection in this AI world? AUDIENCE: Terrified.

MICHAEL SKOK: Yeah, they're going to feel terrified. They're going to feel afraid. They're going to feel scared. They're going to feel vulnerable. Go ahead. AUDIENCE: Something that I was thinking was that, people's ventures, and people's work is something that they value deeply. And by protecting that work, Dorcha is placing value onto things that people care about.

Therefore, people would inherently care about Dorcha. MICHAEL SKOK: So Dena just nailed it. Imagine if you started talking to somebody whose life's work was at risk. Would they care about it? Sure, they would. They'd be like, oh, my God. You mean, my life's work could get destroyed by an AI? That's scary. So the emotion, the reason why they care is not because you come in and tell them that you've got another AI product, that's going to scare them even more.

What they are going to feel when they hear you first start telling the story is, oh, this person understands, my life's work is at risk. It would be incredibly painful, that's the key word here, if I lost this work. And if that becomes more than just a person to an organization, and the organization feels vulnerable to losing all, for example, their customer information, which, as we all well know, has been happening all too often.

There are many, many, many cases of that reported very publicly. Then that destroys value. You've seen companies share prices tumble, literally, because of this kind of problem. So what do they care about? They care about staying safe. They care about not feeling terrified. To Josh's point, they care about all those emotions.

Talk to them in those terms. Start there. Don't punch them in the gut with another AI solution and some technology, which, by the way, I was very clear with Chelsea. We, at Harvard, and us, as educators, own this problem. It's up to us to help you change the narrative to get the story told in a way that you can get people to care.

And then I'll go up the chain again, because it works both ways, as we said, enough to then believe that they actually can trust you to solve the problem, so they'll take an action to, for example, in the case of Dorcha, Chelsea, what would be the first action you would want people to take? AUDIENCE: The first action I would want them to take is to-- I don't know.

We wrote meeting of the minds. And I would want to engage with the appropriate tech leadership to discuss more of their specific pain points, because talking to the wrong person, they're not necessarily going to understand what it is that we're solving. MICHAEL SKOK: Great. That's good enough right there. You just nailed it.

So I'm going to go through your ABCs now, which are way stronger. You're going to talk to people, who care about their life's work, and securing it in a way that they don't lose their greatest value. You're going to find out who the right person is, which is the audience, in your case, that you need to talk to, that can actually get belief in your technology or your ability to work with them.

And its tech to tech in your case. By the way, I was in Symantec for a long time, from zero to, well, billion dollars plus. So I've seen this movie. Your first action, therefore, might be just to get the right introduction. That's it. If they hear that you care and believe enough, and you understand their world enough, it could be just an intro to the right person.

Because to state the obvious, you don't want your whole beautiful narrative to land on deaf ears, because they just don't care. It's not their role. They just aren't the right person. So an introduction is a great first step. Make sense? All right. Well, we just nailed the second framework. And I'm going to now go back with this framework to STORY, because these two tie together very importantly.

So what is the second framework? Act second. After that? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] AUDIENCE: Believe. MICHAEL SKOK: Believe. You can't have forgotten that quickly. AUDIENCE: Care. MICHAEL SKOK: Care. OK. Do you care? Do you care about this framework? Hands in the air if you care about this framework. All right. Good. We're getting somewhere.

So I think we've achieved our goal tonight that you do know two frameworks now. But I want to make sure we integrate them. And you can actually finish telling your story. So these two frameworks are like lock and key. They are interlocking. Once you understand what you're trying to get people to do, what the outcome is you want them to do, using the act, believe, clear framework, the ABC framework, then you can deliver it in your STORY framework.

Building the stakes, the tension, the opportunity, the resolution, and the yes. So simply put, ABC tells you what to say, STORY tells you how to say it. What to say and how to say it. It's that simple. Now, I'm going to show you what that means. It means this. It means that once we figure out, for example, what they care about, that is going to help you build your stage for what's their situation and how you care about it, and the tension.

So we had a wonderful conversation over here with Logan. And actually, Dorchas is the same, which is, well, if they really care about keeping the momentum in their business, they're going to care a lot about their hiring. So they're going to have a huge amount of tension about mishiring. Easy. You're already starting to build that capability into your STORY.

B, believe, drives the opportunity and the resolution to it in STORY. So once you understand what they need and they believe in you, then they'll start to feel like, I understand the opportunity you're presenting me to change my business, and the resolution, when you then present it to them. So I'm now going to introduce Parisa.

Because Parisa, the very first moment I met you in the workshop, I can't remember how many months ago, but one of my workshops here, you have made me believe in what you're doing. So I'd love you to tell your belief STORY in what you're doing and why you think it drives an opportunity. AUDIENCE: We are building verbal brain monitor for patients in neurocritical condition.

MICHAEL SKOK: Neurocritical condition. That's what you're doing. Do you think people should care about that? AUDIENCE: Millions of people. MICHAEL SKOK: Millions of people are experiencing neurocritical conditions. And you have a product that can help monitor that to avert disaster. Is that a fair summary? AUDIENCE: Yes.

MICHAEL SKOK: People's lives can be saved. OK. So I believe that since I first heard it. The thing that you've got to do is now talk about, what's the opportunity for that? You need to say, OK, this is an opportunity that affects millions. And then you have to talk about next what the resolution is. I'm not going to do that for you yet.

Thank you. For the rest of you, the A we've talked about at length is, OK, how do we get them to act? That's the Y in STORY. If you've done all the right things to get them feeling like they're set up based on the stage, and there's real tension associated with this, and you have an opportunity to help them resolve it, then they're going to say, yes.

But you better know what it is that you want them to do when they say yes. And you'd be very, very clear on it, which is what the A is. So let's put it all together. It's not that difficult. It's just the same arc, stage, opportunity, tension, resolution, and yes. But what drives it is, care drives your setup of the stage.

And what are the stakes? Are they very high? Or if they're not high, why do they care? If they're really high, they care. If it's their life's work, they're going to lose. Or if it's a patient, they're going to lose. Or if, for example, their education that's at stake, or if in the case of actually, Sophia, let me ask because I don't know, what are the stakes for legit EVI? AUDIENCE: So if we take as a customer, brands, for instance.

So we are targeting miscommunication on social media. And the brands will look like, if influencers that they have, if they say stuff that is not correct, relating to the stuff that they sell, basically, they have maybe PR issues or penalties that they have to deal with. MICHAEL SKOK: Legit EV. AUDIENCE: Yeah, like evidence.

MICHAEL SKOK: Yeah, evidence. OK, nice. What they cared deeply about is what? AUDIENCE: To not have PR issues or lose money, basically, from that. MICHAEL SKOK: Yeah. So their brand and the value of it. I'm translating for you. Are those the right words? AUDIENCE: Yes. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. I can tell you, brand values measured on some balance sheets in the world.

How many of you know Coke? All right. How much do you think that brand is worth? They sell sugared water. Let's be clear. That's what they sell. But it's worth billions. No exaggeration. So This people care about. So, Sophia, what is important to you is to try to build the tension in your STORY around, what if your brand isn't being protected? It's worth a lot of money to you.

It's your reputation. It's the value people perceive in you. What your brand represents is the trust the customer places in you when they work with you. If that gets broken, then the people you're selling to can't sell to their customers. If you weren't in the customer's compass workshop, we think all the way through not just to what your customer is doing, but how are they serving their customers.

And so take a look at that workshop when it comes up, or you can find it on Startup Secrets. But what it's really about is making sure that you get to solve the problem all the way to the person who actually cares. Like for example, if you're buying a health care product, doesn't matter whether it's a personal health product, or it's a supplement, or it's something much more critical, like a painkiller.

Are you going to trust a brand you've never heard of? No, of course you're not. You'd far rather go to the pharma company that you feel, oh, I've used Bayer aspirin forever. Bayer, I trust. I mean, it's just basics, right? So what we're talking about is getting those emotions to the floor. And that's what I want you to do when you try to go from care to build the stage and start talking about the opportunity.

This makes sense, Sophia? AUDIENCE: Yes. MICHAEL SKOK: Is that helpful? OK. Great. So let's keep going. I'm going to just take a moment to check in. Has anybody not mastered the basics so far of these two frameworks? Because now's the time to be asking questions. And I'm going to put up my grand infogram to answer them.

Yes, I had fun making this. I could tell you my story about my STORY. But the long story about my STORY is, I had fun making this. So to make sure you're really clear on it, we're setting the scene, we're establishing the context with the stage. We're making sure there's some build up to this. Just like I started out telling you the story of the founder, who came in and failed.

That was very upsetting, because you heard the stakes were very high. So all the stakes come in here. And stakes are high with security, stakes are high with hiring, stakes are higher with education, et cetera. Would you send your kid to a school that you didn't feel was giving them the right education at today's? Definitely not.

That's a very high stakes. So then you build up the tension. So why don't you just immediately buy my product? Well, let's talk about the Khan Academy situation, for example. Why do you think Khan Academy was a challenge to start off with? Does anybody not know what Khan Academy is? It was basically starting to help kids through tutoring offline, outside of school.

I'm dramatically simplifying. It's a threat to teachers. Teachers felt like, wait, you're going to get these students that I'm teaching tutored behind my back online. And they're going to come into class with different ways of approaching things. I mean, it was a threat. So you have to think about, under tension, the word "Threat.

" In fact, I'll give you some keywords. I was going to play bingo with you tonight, but I was told, we didn't have enough time. So here are my bingo words for tension, "threats," "time pressure," "turning points," "turmoil," "trouble," "traps," "ticking clocks." I could go on. You get the point. You want some real emotion in here.

What are all these tension points that are actually going to cause people to pay attention to you? What are your ticking clocks? What is going to happen if AI continues to explode in the threats that it brings on security? It's going to get worse, not better. We're only just in the first n-th part of the very first innings on AI.

We've already got going. It's not going to get better, it's going to get worse. Build that tension in. Get people realizing, this is a now issue. OK. That then presents the opportunity. And of course, what you're trying to do here is to start to get into the possibilities of what you might change. So I like talking about-- again, we were going to play bingo, but we'll do it another time.

Here are my bingo words for opportunity. What is the outlook you can offer them? What is the opening? Look at the diagram that I put up before with the rainbow. And remember, what I was trying to do is show you a path. What is the opening that you're giving them? What offer are you giving them of relief? What is the onward path for them? And where is it? They're ultimately going to feel like, wow, this is a chance for change.

People talk about having problems that are hair on fire. Have any of you ever had your hair on fire? I mean, what a stupid phrase. Sorry, but it is just dumb. I have been stabbed. And I can tell you, when you get stabbed, and you have a knife in your side, you know about pain. And when you have that knife in your side, if somebody twists it, it is frightening.

That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about knife in the side pain, that somebody is going to twist, because the ongoing pressures in the marketplace or the challenges that are coming at you that severe, that you cannot stay in this state. And I'll use the analogy one more time too. When the knife has to be removed, which is basically displacing existing products, it's also painful.

And you're going to have to heal a wound before you can do anything else. My story was very simple, by the way. I broke both my legs when I was skiing. And they had to rebreak them. And because they couldn't tell all the different things that were going on, I had to have a knife put in me. And they had to twist it to figure out where the break was.

Not fun. I'm never going to forget it. That's why I want you to think about things that people will never forget. What's the best thing about a story? You never forget it if it's great. You'll probably never forget, I broke both legs skiing now. But I want that kind of emotion coming out in your tension, in your opportunity, and in what it is that's the resolution.

Well, the resolution was, in my case, actually, rebreak the legs, reset them, otherwise, I wouldn't be walking today. That all happened in England. Well, I got the first setting done in Germany. So real story, real truth, real authentic, that's what you want. And then your resolution feel like, oh, my God, what a relief.

You've actually solved this problem for me. And better still, this word, I chose carefully is "resolution." It means you can reimagine what is possible and come up with a different solution. What I would not do is to just come up with something that is simpler, faster, better, cheaper, because everybody can do that.

And bigger companies will do it way better than you, because they have more resource. So resolution is also the word breakdown of resolution. But you're providing the resolution to this pain they've been in and the tension they've been suffering. Until eventually, they go, of course, I want you to take that knife out of my side.

Now, yes, do it. Let's get on with it. All right. With that, get to your stories, put your S, your T, your O, your R, and your Y, and start working. We'll come and help you as we come around. And just raise your hand if you want help. I'll be walking around anyway. So at this point, you're setting the stage.

So what is the stage? Are there lots of companies out there using social media? AUDIENCE: Yes. MICHAEL SKOK: Are there lots of companies getting in trouble because of it? AUDIENCE: Yes. MICHAEL SKOK: That's the stage. AUDIENCE: OK. MICHAEL SKOK: So get the clarity about what's going on. And is it more or less companies using it? Is it increasing? Or is it decreasing? AUDIENCE: Increasing.

MICHAEL SKOK: OK. So you've got a lot of things going on here. AUDIENCE: There's AI coming. MICHAEL SKOK: So there you go. You've got another forcing function, which is, AI is going to be changing the environment. So try to get some emotion into this. So what is the emotion people are going to be feeling about social media? AUDIENCE: Because what I'm trying, because also, when I think about the pitch deck, for instance, to investors.

MICHAEL SKOK: Then think pitch for a second. Just think story. AUDIENCE: Just story. OK. MICHAEL SKOK: Yeah. That's what happens to everybody. They get pulled into the pitch before they've even thought of the story. AUDIENCE: OK. No. OK. So then setting the stage is like, OK, companies getting into trouble with miscommunication on social media.

MICHAEL SKOK: Yeah. And that's the problem, but tell me a little bit more about this. For example. I'm going to make this up, but I actually do see it. What is AI doing with social media? It's automatically generating it, right? AUDIENCE: Yes. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. So it's not authentic. AUDIENCE: Yeah. It's not authentic.

No one knows whether it's true or not. And whether it's real, like-- MICHAEL SKOK: So what we've got is a really big challenge now. Now, that's a different stage. How would you talk about the danger of AI? It's generating a lot of the social media. You should find out how much. And is it growing? Or is it something people feel safe with? No, they don't even know whether it's true.

It's not even verified. And then they are beginning to actually experience that as potentially, brand damage, which is highly expensive to them. So now, that becomes your stage setting, and you start building that. AUDIENCE: The community is actually-- MICHAEL SKOK: Well, go to T first. Remember, you've got to stay in order.

AUDIENCE: The T. So is this the T then. MICHAEL SKOK: Well, what do you think is the tension? AUDIENCE: The tension is that they have AI. And that AI is creating loads of social media, which might not be correct, and then damages your brand. MICHAEL SKOK: So that's great. Let's get that down as a threat. It's a really good job.

AUDIENCE: And it's not just AI created social media, but it's also like influencers just pretending just-- MICHAEL SKOK: Very good. So influencers is another part of the threat. That might be part of the stage here too. And you have influencers as part of-- AUDIENCE: Presenting your brand. MICHAEL SKOK: Very good.

Now, you're getting a really good, powerful stage. And you can then start to talk about, what's the threat that comes out of that? Or what's the tension that comes out of it? AUDIENCE: Influencers. OK. So that's the tension is your reputational damage. MICHAEL SKOK: But it's not just that tension. You can think of others.

So let me give you another example. Are people going to stop using social media because of this? No. AUDIENCE: No, that's where we come in. MICHAEL SKOK: So the tension is, they want to keep using it, but they're worried about how it is growing as a threat. That's a tension. AUDIENCE: I get it. MICHAEL SKOK: Do you understand? AUDIENCE: Yeah, [INAUDIBLE].

MICHAEL SKOK: Great. And then why do they care about you? AUDIENCE: OK. So my company has the potential to be a unicorn. MICHAEL SKOK: On just two million? AUDIENCE: No. MICHAEL SKOK: OK. So take it a step at a time. What we want to do is say, for this amount of seed money, that you can feel like you can believe in me to actually deploy well.

I will build some real value. And there are two words I'm going to give you, "risk" and "reward." It's the only thing investors care about. For this amount of risk, how much reward and potential upside is there for me? And you want to be constantly reducing the risk and increasing the potential reward. So for this amount of money, you're going to create some real value while reducing risk.

Does that make sense? Let's get those done. You can't jump to being a unicorn. AUDIENCE: Yes. MICHAEL SKOK: Now, you might put that as your vision. And when we get to pitching to VCs, I'll come back to you. We can talk about that. All right. Time is up. AUDIENCE: Yeah. MICHAEL SKOK: And we have an exciting finale, which is, we're going to put me on the spot.

And we're going to figure out whether I have told a story that you actually think you can remember, and whether ABC and S-T-O-R-Y is actually going to work for you. So I had a bold claim up the front. I said, you could learn two frameworks in two minutes. Raise your hand if you've learned two frameworks. All right, I lied.

It took 45, 60. No. We've been here for about-- I don't know. So we, at least, learned two frameworks. The first of which was obviously me telling you a story, where we set the stage, we built tension, we defined the opportunity, we figured out what the resolution was, and we got people to yes. What was the second framework? AUDIENCE: ABC.

MICHAEL SKOK: ABC. Who said anything else? Did you say ABC? Yeah, tell us, Logan, about ABC. What does ABC do for you? AUDIENCE: Act, believe, and care. It taps into the action you want them to take. MICHAEL SKOK: So this, yeah, it translates. If we don't know what action we want them to take, then why are you telling the story in the first place? But once you know what you want them to take, you've got to get them to yes.

So this is super important that one connects. Teresa did tell a wonderful story, by the way, in her pitch deck. She didn't talk about the technology. She said, Sarah suffered a stroke and spent weeks in the ICU. She tragically passed. You had me right there. Leaving her family devastated. Could she have been saved? What a great question.

So you began telling a story there. Now, why should we believe in that story? AUDIENCE: And I think it is a story that many people, they have already experienced, or unfortunately, they will experience. And many of us, when we have a kid with traumatic brain injury or parent with a stroke, we see them get diagnosed.

MICHAEL SKOK: Why do you care? Because you lost a loved one. Nobody's going to have any question about that. So remember when I said, VCs ask questions like, why you? That's an easy answer for you. Because I lost somebody to this. Now, you could go on to explain, what you've been studying at Harvard or the various different research that you've done, all the tests that you've done, et cetera, to get people to believe in you, that you are credible.

But you have a wonderful starting point. And every one of you in this room, and if I had more time, I'd have you do this, can start with a story you already know. What is that? What story do you all already know? Go ahead. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] MICHAEL SKOK: You all know your own story. And it's totally unique.

Everybody in this room has a story. Learn to tell your story. Use the ABC and STORY frameworks to do so. And set it in the right direction, so people believe in you. And you will have tremendously different results. People will start to feel conviction in who you are and why they should care about you, and why they should believe in you, importantly, so they can start to feel like, oh, Parisa is going to get me resolution.

And it's going to create an opportunity. Hospitals will get resolution for millions of patients. OK. Start so credible because you went to be. OK. C, care. Who wants to pick up care for a second? We haven't given you a chance, Kuljit, to talk since the beginning. Tell me a little bit about why people care about ethical AI learning.

AUDIENCE: Because the world moves fast. And you're going to have to move faster. MICHAEL SKOK: I love that, because everybody's going to agree with you. It's getting faster too. What does that have to do with the stage you're setting for ethical AI learning? AUDIENCE: The current tools are failing students today.

MICHAEL SKOK: OK. So your threat is, things are moving faster, and people can't keep up. That's your tension point. We had a great conversation, Sophia, just a minute ago. You set a stage that took us a while to pull out. But do you want to tell us? So, Sophia, just to remind you, what she's doing is helping brands manage their social media and to protect their brand value.

So what's the stage you're setting now after our conversation? AUDIENCE: The stage that we are setting is basically that companies are getting into trouble because of miscommunication on social media, either through influencers, who basically miscommunicates stuff about their brand or through even AI, which actually changes the entire environment, because much of the social media out there is not created by humans but actually by AI.

So that's the stage that we are setting. MICHAEL SKOK: Fantastic. So when we talked about it, we realized, there are actually a lot of things that also build into a threat. Social media is not getting less used. It's getting more used. And worse still, AI is creating a lot of the social media. And you told me something very important.

People don't even whether it's true. It's not verified. So people can't trust it. So if they can't trust it, and it turns out not to be true, and it's representing your brand, that's a big threat. That's going to create a lot of tension. And so you've got a really big opportunity to get people feeling like, wow, I need to care about this.

My brand's at risk. The whole value of what I've built through my social media channels could be threatened by AI basically creating untruths and sowing Discord out in the market. It's happening, by the way. We all know of, you don't know it, the term "slop" is a real problem. I can't read most posts anymore, because they just look like they were created by AI.

And they read the same. They just don't feel authentic, which is obviously a critical part of storytelling. So to summarize what we've done today, we workshopped ABC. We then workshopped STORY. And to remind you, they fit like lock and key together. ABC is you designing backward from what you want. STORY is how you tell it forward to get the audience to yes.

The arc of the STORY in detail that I just took you through will be in your slides. So don't worry, you don't have to get to it. And when you put it all together, you end up having a narrative that should feel very authentic, very believable, just like you can visualize this picture of the mist clearing, and you see the path, and you realize, OK, there's an answer here.

And I feel like this is the team or the person that I can work with, that has really given me conviction. They understand what I'm doing. And what that did was to get you to feel like you could get people to yes. And when you do that, you're going to transform not just them, but you. So actually, this is my goal, bigger than I said.

But I'm not going to challenge you tonight. I want these two frameworks to be totally transformative, first of all, for your customers. And whether that's an investor that you engage or whether that's a hire that you're trying to make, or it's a partner or a strategic partner, or for example, if you're a two-sided marketplace, like an eBay, if it's a seller or looking at different kinds of businesses, if it's B2B2C, they're selling on through their customers, we want them to both be able to sell safely to their customers and feel that their brand is protected. These are all transformative things if you do them right. And I'm actually going to challenge you. After 13 years of being here, I want you to stop pitching. Game over. I think we're teaching the wrong thing. Pitching is not the game. That's for baseball. What we are all challenged to do is to tell stories that move people to a place where every conversation becomes an opportunity for them

to come towards you as believers and partners. When your customers become partners, your business is transformed. When your talent becomes your partner and believes in your vision, they become a true asset to your company. They're not just an employee. And this applies for investors too. If you want to get me, the investors have left the room, but I will play my investor hat on for a second.

If you want to get me to invest in your business, don't tell me what you're going to do, tell me what you are going to enable. What transformation you will enable for your customers? Because once I understand that, and I can understand how you're going to transform customers and therefore, industries, and therefore, create tremendous value, I'm in.

That's the story I want to hear. So every audience, I only pick three today, but it works for everybody. I picked talent. I picked customers. And I picked investors, because they all talk to each other, can be transformed by a STORY plus ABC. And when you master this, everything changes. Talent will not just consider joining.

They want in. They want to become part of the story. Customers don't just evaluate, they lean forward and think about, how soon can they get you involved? They're going to get competitive advantage from you. This is fantastic. Now, tell me what you do. Different. Investors, I just told you. We won't be just listening.

They'll be asking, how can they help? And if they don't tell you that, and they're not giving you that signal, you didn't tell them a story, you pitch them. Get them to the point where they can't wait to help you, because they want to write the check and bring the resources around you. That's going to enable you to make these transformations.

That is game-changing. That's why, I hope tonight has convinced you that there is a better way. No more pitches. And to summarize, you have a very, very important role in this. You are not the hero. Game over. Your new role is the guide. Those of you who enjoy these kinds of films, that picture hopefully tells the story for you.

You're the guide, not the hero. You are helping people by telling these stories, understand how they are going to have a great experience. And you're going to tell it emotionally in a way that it grabs them and it transforms their interest to action. And when that happens will change from being somebody who looks unsure, unworthy, and not believable into somebody who can take charge and own your audience.

Thank you very much. I really appreciate your time. [MUSIC PLAYING]
