00:00:01 yes Mr jobs you're a bright and influential man here it comes it's sad and clear that on several accounts you've discussed you don't know what you're talking about I would like for example for you to express in clear terms how say Java in any of its incarnations addresses the ideas embodied in open duck and when you're finished with that perhaps you could tell us with you personally have been doing for the last seven years uh you know you can please some of the people some of the time but one of the hardest things when

00:01:00 you're trying to affect change is that people like this gentleman are right in some areas I'm sure that there are some things opoc does probably even more that I'm not familiar with that nothing else out there does and I'm sure that you can make some demos maybe a small commercial app that demonstrates those things the hardest thing is what how does that fit in to a cohesive larger Vision that's going to allow you to sell um $8 billion1 billion a product a year and one of the things I've always found is that you've got to start with the

00:01:55 customer experience and work backwards to the technology you can't start with the technology and try to figure out where you're going to try to sell it and I've made this mistake probably more than anybody else in this room and I've got the scar tissue to prove it and I know that it's the case and as we have tried to come up with a strategy and a vision for Apple um it started with what incredible benefits come we give to the customer where can we take the customer not not starting with let's sit down with the

00:02:37 engineers and and figure out what awesome technology we have and then how are we going to Market that um and I think that's the right path to take uh I remember with the laser writer we built the world's first small Laser Printers you know and there was awesome technology in that box we had the first Canon Laser printing cheap laser printing engine in the world in the United States here at Apple we had a very wonderful printer controller that we designed we had adobe's postcript software in there we had Apple talk in

00:03:14 there just awesome technology in the box and I remember seeing the first uh printout come out of it and just picking it up and looking at it and thinking you know we can sell this cuz you don't have to know anything about what's in that box all we have to do is hold this up and go do you want this and if you can remember back to 1984 before Laser Printers it was pretty startling to see that people went whoow yes and that's that's where Apple's got to get back to and you know I'm sorry that open Do's a casualty along the way

00:03:53 and I readily admit there are many things in life that I don't have the faintest idea what I'm talking about so I apologize for that too but there's a whole lot of people working super super hard right now at Apple you know AI John Gino Fred I mean the whole team is working burning the midnight oil trying to and and and people you know hundreds of people below them to execute uh on some of these things and they're they're doing their best and I think that what we need to do and some mistakes will be made by the way some mistakes will be

00:04:28 made along the way that's good because at least some decisions are being made along the way and we'll find the mistakes we'll fix them and I think what we need to do is support that team going through this very important stage as they work their butts off they're all getting calls being offered three times as much money to go do this do that the Valley's hot and none of them are leaving and I think we need to support them and see them through this and write some damn good applications uh to support apple out in

00:04:58 the market that's my own point of view mistakes we made some people will be pissed off some people will not know what they're talking about but it's I think it is so much better than where things were not very long ago and I think we're going to get there

00:00:00 there needs to be someone who is sort of the keeper and reiterate er of the vision because there's just a ton of work to do and a lot of times you know when you have to walk a thousand miles and you take the first step it looks like a long ways and it really helps if there's someone there saying well we're one step closer you know that the goal definitely exists it's not just a mirage out there so in a thousand and one little and sometimes larger ways the vision needs to be reiterated I do that a lot well I've forgotten how much work it

00:00:34 actually is to start a company it's a lot of work and you've got to do everything you've got to come up with a name you've got to come up with a logo even I mean in addition to designing the product you've got to figure out what to design you've got to figure out how you're gonna get it to the marketplace you've got to do a part number system you've got to go get bank accounts you've got to set up charts general Ledger's get a management information system get a little kitchen set up get a coffee maker all this stuff well my

00:00:55 first saying is that the honeymoon is over all of those wonderful things that we got for just being are now sort of just old news we are like every other startup we've been a company now for six months and yes you could say that well we had a you know lawsuit for four of those months and we had this and that but the bottom line is the world doesn't really care what the world cares about is what we produce we've been a startup for six months we've been spending money like we've in a start-up for six months and

00:01:28 in some areas we've really produced a lot we've got a lot to show for six months in some areas in other areas we don't have a lot to show for six months so I hope that throughout this retreat we tend to make sure that our feet are on the ground and we realize that we're going to be judged like every other startup from here on out and that is by what our product is and how timely we bring it to market and getting a consensus on a common vision we wanted people that were insanely great at what they did but work we're not necessarily

00:01:59 those seasoned professionals but who has on at the tips of their fingers and in their passion the latest understanding of where technology was and what we could do with that technology and who wanted to bring that to lots of people so the neatest thing that happens is when you get a core group of you know ten great people that it becomes self-policing as to who they let into that group so I consider the most important job of someone like myself is recruiting one of the things I've always found is that you've got to

00:02:37 start with the customer experience and work backwards to the technology you can't start with the technology and try to figure out where you're going to try to sell it and I've made this mistake probably more than anybody else in this room and I got the scar tissue to prove it and I know that it's the case and as we have tried to come up with a strategy in a vision for Apple it started with what incredible benefits can we give to the customer where can we take the customer not not starting with let's sit down with the engineers and and figure

00:03:22 out what awesome technology we have and then how are we going to market that and I think that's the right path to take you've got to find what you love and that is as true for work as it is for your lovers your work is going to fill a large part of your life and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work and the only way to do great work is to love what you do if you haven't found it yet keep looking and don't settle as with all matters of the heart you'll know when you find it

00:03:56 and like any great relationship it just gets better and better as the years roll on so keep looking don't settle did you ever want to give up did you ever think of giving up oh there were moments where it was pretty tough there have been moments but no I don't think so I don't think so the first year or two was the hardest and there was no personal computer in 1975 it it's fight it's very hard to believe well that's why we made one we made one because we wanted one and we there wasn't one so we had to make one did you

00:04:29 know that when you've made the personal computer though that this will become a major industry I mean did you know like this no no it took about eight years before we started the sensit I had a partner named Steve Wozniak was a brilliant guy and he did most of the engineering on the original Apple one in the Apple two and after about a year what we showed it to her we just made it for ourselves and and we showed it to her friends and they all wanted one and so we were busy making these computers by hand for our friends and we it was

00:04:59 taking all of our life all of our spare time and so we decided we better manufacture a hundred of these to get you know so that we can not have to spend the rest of our lives making them for our friends and that's how we got into this we didn't think about starting a company we were just doing it for ourselves and then our friends and then the circle got bigger and bigger and bigger now there's 25 million people so you're having fun oh yeah we've always had fun doing this so many young people are aspiring to become you

00:05:26 know startup venture you know venture companies and write emulate something like Apple for themselves and sometimes people come to me and say I want to start a company and I say why it's all I want to make lots of money I say forget it that's not a good enough reason most people that have started companies because they want to make lots of money I haven't seen very many of those succeed the ones that succeed are people that come sometimes they don't even want to start a company they just have an idea that they want to get out express

00:05:57 out into the world and oftentimes they have to start a company because nobody else will listen to them the company of 10,000 people how do you permeate the message throughout all the employees what do you say to them well you permeated by example ultimately and in other words when something's not quite good enough do you stop and make it better or do you just ship it you know and everybody watches when you to see how the senior management makes those decisions and what we've tried to do is stop and make it great

00:06:31 before we ship it we have problem stop and them and and by example you can say anything you want but everybody watches very carefully when you're in a difficult situation what decisions you make when values you have they would like to know how you do it and you know it's probably very not that's not that's probably not easy to do yeah you know we try to hire really smart people but we have a very simple organization and we try to focus and do very few things well and focusing is hard because focusing doesn't mean saying yes it means saying

00:07:06 no so we say we decide not to do a lot of things so we can focus on a few handfuls of things and do them well and I think you know everybody working the company wants to do something great they want to be excited about what they're working on and and they want to be recognized for it when if they do a really great job so we just try to allow people to do the best work of their lives at Apple and get it out to twenty five million customers that we have and that's very exciting and when you're working on something and you know this

00:07:41 works out up to twenty five million people are going to use this it's very motivating and it's not just twenty five million of our customers but other companies tend to follow us you know it takes them a few years but other companies tend to copy what we do if it works and and so we can influence the whole industry do you see what do how do you see yourself ten years from now you know my my headlights are not that good I don't know I don't really think about it you know I think about a year or two three down the road we have some

00:08:13 projects at Apple that are sort of maybe four years down the road five years probably like three or four at the most because things change too much you can be going down a path you say well in five years I want to be here but then something new happens and you you just say forget that I want to be over there so most of this five-year planning that I've seen in my life some of its essential but most of it changes too quickly so we tend to look three four years it's about as far ahead as we can see so you keep yourself in

00:08:46 the butt I guess okay now is the time to change you know one of the things I don't see is I don't see it myself I don't see it in the red and enough of the rest of us is I don't see that that startup hustle in other words if we zoom out at the big picture it would be ashamed to have lost the war because we won a few battles and I sort of feel like I and some of the rest of us are concentrating too much on the smaller battles we have to brat and we're not keeping the war in perspective and the war is called survival the war

00:09:17 is called not run out of money until we get our product on the market some insights and some fundamentally different experiences which I thought might be very beneficial to their lives because of this germ of an idea a few years ago and that's an incredible feeling to know that you had something to do with it a and B to know it can be done to know that you can plant something in the world and it'll grow and and change the world ever so slightly [Music] whether next can be a viable business is something only time will tell but Steve

00:09:50 Jobs passionate commitment to his vision is clear and his certainty that it can be achieved and is worth achieving is a conviction to be observed in all successful entrepreneurs [Music]

00:00:00 I'm a computer science student and I've been trying to build up a solid portfolio of real world projects. At the same time, my Gmail inbox was a complete disaster. Thousands of unread emails, mostly random promos for things I swore I never signed up for. So, I figured why not solve both problems at once? I built a Chrome extension called Inbox Wiz. It connects you to your Gmail and shows you the top senders that are currently cluttering up your inbox. Allows you to quickly see what those emails are and helps you delete and unsubscribe in book

00:00:37 so your inbox actually feels manageable again. So today I wanted to share the story of how I built Inbox Wiz, what went right, what went wrong, and what I wish I knew before starting. I had never built a Chrome extension before. So, I started where I normally do when learning something new and watched a couple of tutorials. I'm one of those people who watches tutorials at two times speed and barely has the patience to finish it before trying to go and apply it to my own thing. So, after finishing a simple pop-up tutorial and

00:01:07 skimming through the Chrome documentation, I dove right into developing inbox wiz. I started with plain JavaScript, HTML, and CSS because that's what all the tutorials in that documentation used. But the features piled up very quickly. Gmail integration, senders list, modals, batch actions, things got messy very quickly. My entire codebase was basically a million JavaScript functions generating HTML with not enough rhyme or reason to keep me from completely wanting to pull my hair out trying to remember how on

00:01:40 earth this all fits together. Now that I think about it, this is probably where my deep-seated loathing of JavaScript originated. So there I was one night sitting and staring at the complete disaster spaghetti code nightmare of my own creation having no idea where to even start with the next feature I needed. And I finally had to face my first mistake. There had to be a better way. So I sat down and I refactored the entire thing in React. The thing about that is that I had minimal exposure to React. I only briefly encountered it in class and I

00:02:20 had never actually built any real apps with it, so I had to learn it on the go. Mistake number two, learn it before you use it. I've heard a lot of people have the opposite problem where they get stuck in tutorial hell and never have the confidence to actually get started. But for me, I tend to dive right into things too fast and often times realize I need to go back to the drawing board and learn a little bit more of the fundamentals first. I especially faced a bit of a learning curve with React because I had previously worked with

00:02:51 Flutter and that was a lot more object-oriented and I preferred more objectoriented architecture patterns which I couldn't easily translate to React. I had to learn a whole new system but it did pay off in the end. Uh the code became much more modular and scalable and suddenly it felt possible to build new features without everything breaking. Around this time, I also started using GitHub issues and milestones to keep track of bugs that were coming up and all the new feature ideas I had. All the MVP features went

00:03:24 into one milestone and all future ideas and bugs went into the backlog. This really helped me avoid feature creep and stay focused on building a minimum viable product. I tracked only what was necessary for the MVP, but then I was able to capture everything else for later. So, I was able to, you know, have all these new ideas, but not necessarily have it derail my project and have it go on and on and on, you know, as feature creep goes. Around this time, I also started doing a little bit of market research. I was stalking a few of the

00:03:57 other um similar Chrome extensions on the Chrome web store. I was scoping out their reviews, especially the bad ones, just to find out what people were wanting and what they were lacking and what kind of pain points I could solve with some future features. And I was able to use those insights to prioritize what future features I'd want to make to make Inbox Wiz stand out. So, finally, I had the project working. I had all the base functionality in place and it was running perfectly on my machine. I had a couple of friends try it out on theirs

00:04:30 just passing the extension around on a USB drive and we found a couple of bugs like some text disappearing when it was in dark mode. Um it was all quick fixes. So then it was time to release my creation into the world. To do that I had to go through two separate approval processes. The Chrome Web Store approval and the Google O verification since I was using the Gmail API. Both of these required a homepage and a privacy policy. So, I bought a domain and I threw together a quick website with some plain HTML and CSS and I hosted it for

00:05:06 free on GitHub pages. The Chrome Web Store approval actually went through pretty quickly. My extension was published, but Google off verification was a completely different story. Now, if you've never used Gmail APIs before, here's a quick aside because this was not something I knew going in. Even though my extension was worked perfectly, the moment a user tried to sign in with their Google account, they'd see a big scary warning. Google hasn't verified this app. It looks super sketchy, and I knew no one was going to

00:05:40 feel comfortable clicking through that. And even worse, Google actually enforces a hard limit on unverified apps. Only 100 total users are allowed ever when you haven't gone through their verification process. So, what is this verification? Basically, if your app uses sensitive scopes, like reading or deleting emails, Google wants to make sure you're not doing anything shady with that data, and that's totally fair, but the process is pretty intense. The Google Cloud Verification Center has a list of requirements needed to get

00:06:10 approved. At first glance, it all seemed doable. a link to my homepage, detailed privacy policy, a YouTube video showing the full OOTH flow, and a full writeup demonstrating why exactly my app needed the scopes I requested. But over the next few weeks, I started getting email after email from the Google team flagging tiny issues that I had already addressed. For example, your homepage is missing link to your privacy policy. Except it wasn't. It was right there, just in the footer. So, I dragged the link up to the top of

00:06:43 the page just to make them happy. But this back and forth went on for weeks. Every single time I thought I crossed the last hurdle, another small correction would pop up. And finally, after it felt like jumping through every single hoop imaginable, I got one more email. It It was referencing a requirement vaguely labeled additional requirements. And that's where I learned about the Cassa assessment. If your app uses Gmail data and is going to be used by the general public, you need to undergo a tier 2 CSA security audit,

00:07:17 which costs, wait for it, $540 a year, even with Google's preferred partner discount. I had built this project as a student for free in my free time. There was no way I could justify spending that kind of money just to make it official. So, I had to make a choice. either shut it all down or shift my mindset and make it something else. That's when I decided I could open source the project. If I couldn't monetize it, at least I could let it live on as a portfolio piece, something I could point to and say, "I built this. It works." And you can see

00:07:54 the whole thing. I clean up the repo. I wrote a proper read me. And I made the code public on GitHub. And honestly, even though this wasn't the ending I'd hoped for, I was still able to make it a win. Building this extension taught me so much more than just coding. I learned how to scope a project, how to adapt when things break, and how to navigate the real world hurdles no tutorial ever tells you about. So, to recap, I'm going to go over the things I felt like I learned and maybe could help you if you're a new developer. So, first of

00:08:27 all, take the time to understand and learn the technologies you're going to use. If you're anything like me, you may think you have the basics down, but if you find yourself having to Google or chat GPT every single step, it may be a sign to spend a little bit more time with tutorial. Learning best practices will save you weeks of headache and rewrites later. And trust me, I've learned this the hard way. But on the flip side, if you're someone who tends to get stuck in tutorial hell and overthink before you write a single line

00:08:58 of code, this next one might be more for you. Ship it early. It doesn't have to be perfect. You learn things along the way. The these last two may seem contradictory, but learning software development is all about finding that balance. So you should build and practice to expose the gaps in your knowledge and then learn and watch tutorials to fill those gaps intentionally. And number three, avoid starting big projects in plain JavaScript. It gets messy very quickly. Use a framework or structure that's able to scale with complexity. This is not a

00:09:34 traditional path for Chrome extensions. So let me know if you want a more in-depth video about how I used React and Vit specifically in the Chrome extension world. And number four, implement some sort of project management to stay focused and keep track of ideas without derailing your MVP. This was something I struggled with in previous projects, but I think I did pretty well in this project, and GitHub issues really helped. So, I'd really recommend that as a starting point. Number five, know your platform's rules

00:10:03 ahead of time. Especially if you're going to be integrating with sensitive APIs like Gmail, try to understand the limitations before you get too far along. And finally, don't stay tied to your initial vision of what your project will be. Just because it doesn't work out the way you wanted it to doesn't mean it has to be a fail. Find a way to make it work for you. Whether it becomes a polished product, an open- source portfolio piece, or just a learning detour, it's still a win. If you're a student or a self-taught dev wondering

00:10:34 whether you're ready to ship something, you are. Start small, aim for done, and be open to learning hard stuff along the way. If you enjoyed this video or found it helpful, please give it a like. If you've ever built a project that totally spiraled out of control, tell me about it in the comments. I'm planning to post more videos about being a CS student, working on software projects, maybe doing some lead code or tech deep dives. So, if that sounds interesting to you, feel free to subscribe and stick around

00:11:03 and see you in the next one.

00:00:00 I built a simple website that makes 40K a month. This is Angus Chang. He lives in Hong Kong and he built the simplest website I've ever seen. >> I built a website that literally does one thing. >> And what's even crazier is that he operates this business entirely as a solopreneur. Solo founder, zero employees, 100% bootstrapped. >> I bootstrapped this entire business by myself. >> I brought Angus onto the channel and he broke down how he found a silly idea that thousands of people also happen to need. why spending money on ads actually

00:00:30 hurt his business and why having a big strategy is for losers. All right, let's dive in. I'm Pat Walls and this is Starter Story. All right, welcome Angus to the channel. Thank you for coming on. Tell me about who you are, what you built, and what's your story. >> My name is Angus Chang. I built a business that does just one thing. I launched it in 2021 and today it makes $40,000 a month and I run it entirely by myself. All right, before we get into the numbers of this amazing business that you built, I want to hear how did

00:00:59 you come up with the idea for Bank Statement Converter? >> I had just quit my job and I knew I was going to build some sort of product. I actually had planned to build something else. But on the side, I was thinking, you know, I've got X amount of money in the bank. I want to know how long I can continue living the way I'm living. And to do that, I wanted multiple years of bank data. I wanted it all in a nice Excel spreadsheet so I can kind of figure out, okay, it looks like I'm spending this much a month. And that was

00:01:21 a lot harder than I thought it would be because my bank only provided PDF bank statements. So, I wrote some code to get the transaction data out of the bank statements and that was also really hard. So, I figured it must be a real problem. >> Okay, you found the idea. Lots of people have ideas all the time. How did you know that this could be a business? >> Often I like to just make an MVP as quickly as possible, get it into production and then get it in front of real users. And that's kind of what I did. So, me and a friend worked on it

00:01:43 for about a week. We got a domain, we launched it, and then we bought Google ads to get people to start clicking into the domain. And immediately people started uploading bank statements, which kind of validated the problem. You know, >> I think a lot of people watching this will be looking for how do I find a simple idea? How do I find this kind of app that can do one thing? I can build it myself and it can become a business. Do you have any sort of framework or strategy around finding these ideas? >> I think a good way is if you encounter

00:02:06 the problem yourself or a painoint yourself. Another way is your colleagues or friends complain about stuff at work. But sometimes I just get ideas and I just think of the smallest possible way to implement that idea. You know, get it out there and see if people will use it. You can try to validate before launching, but if it takes you like one or two weeks to make an MVP, it's not that much of a risk anyway. So, you might as well just build it. >> Okay. So, we talked about finding the idea, but I want to hear more about how

00:02:30 you actually built this thing. How did you go from idea to real live website? >> When I proved this out, I had a local version that would work for my own bank. I wrote this in Cotlin. It was basically a console application. And then I generalized it a bit so that it would work with other bank statements. Like obviously I don't know if it works for every bank statement but I tried it out with some of my other banks and some of my friends banks and then I convinced a friend to help me build the UI for this and he did this in Nex.js and then we

00:02:54 got the two things deployed. I got the front end on Netifi. I deployed the back end to uh EC2 on AWS and that's kind of how we did it. >> Cool. You probably build a bunch of other apps and you learned a lot in the process of what works and what doesn't. What's your kind of framework for building? What's the Angus method? >> It's kind of like a lean startup approach. you know, you make an MVP, launch it as quickly as possible. Try to get it in front of your target audience, whoever they are. Don't show it to your

00:03:16 friends and family, you know, they will just lie to you and they're probably not going to buy your product anyway. And then you build your features based on real user feedback. So maybe somebody emails you or maybe like analytics. So if you notice that people are dropping off on this page, maybe you need to do something there. If people are not using a certain feature, maybe don't continue working on it. >> All right. Well, let's get into some of the numbers of this. Can you give me a timeline of the growth of bank statement

00:03:39 converter? So 2021 we launched bank statement converter. 2022 we hit 6,000 USD MRR. 2023 14,000. 2024 27,000. And today it's at 40,000 USD MR. >> Total number of users 75,000. Paying customers about a,000 and traffic per month about 40,000. >> All right. So everyone watching this right now is probably wondering, okay, it's cool how you built it, but how did you actually market it? How did you get customers? Was there a specific strategy that made this thing go up? >> At first, I bought Google search ads. These were good for getting the initial

00:04:10 users, but I was never able to run an ad campaign profitably. So, I would spend maybe $1,000 on ads and bring in about $300 in sales. I spent a lot of time trying to optimize these ads, trying to get them more profitable, but never really worked out. I tried blogging and building in public. That gets quite a lot of attention. However, I don't think I get many users from doing that because my users don't seem to be using Twitter or reading my blog. I also tried sending out cold emails and in 3 months of doing

00:04:35 that, I got one sale and I also annoyed a lot of people. I got a lot of angry messages back. People don't really like cold emails. After about 6 months of running Google search ads, I decided, you know, I'm just not going to do this anymore. I might not even do this app anymore. I cut the ads and I thought maybe go back to work. And interestingly, I stopped paying for ads. So, I knew everyone who was clicking on the website was an organic user. And I noticed I started getting new users. I'd get like two or three new signups a day.

00:04:59 From that point on, I kind of focused on improving the products. When customers complained about things, I would fix them. and I just basically focused on doing what the customers wanted. >> All right, real quick before we get into how Angus built this $30,000 per month business, let's talk about something that matters a lot once your business starts making money. Banking. The truth is most banks aren't built for solo founders and SAS builders. They slow you down with low card limits, delayed payments, and systems that feel like

00:05:26 they were made in 2004. That's why we're partnering with Brex, the modern finance platform that's built from the ground up for startups. With Brex, you can get up to 20x higher card limits. Earn high yields on your cash, automate expenses, invoices, and vendor payments, and move money instantly when you need it. It's fast, flexible, and made to scale with you, no matter how small or scrappy your SAS is right now. We worked with them to put together a free guide called The Startup's Guide to Modern Banking. It

00:05:55 breaks down how to protect your cash, extend runway, and upgrade your finance stack without wasting time. Just click the first link in the description to download it. Thank you to Brex for supporting the channel. Let's get back to the video. All right, so you got this website making a bunch of money. It's a great business. You have a team working on this. >> No, it's just me. I started this business with a friend, but he left after a few weeks. I do all the development, customer support, sales, and marketing.

00:06:18 >> All right. So, you went from working a 9 toive job to being a soloreneur, running your own business. What was that transition like? working for a company, you kind of spend a lot of time like playing, you know, refactoring code, trying out databases you think are cool. But when you work for yourself, you quickly realize these things don't make any money and potentially are a waste of time. So, your focus is really different. You go from being like a developer who cares about writing nice code to a developer who cares about

00:06:41 business features and more business aligned, I suppose. >> Yeah. In your experience becoming a solarreneur, what are some of the pros and cons of the solarreneur lifestyle? >> When I first started, it was a big change. Most of my friends I knew, most of the people I hung out with were people from work. You know, you go out for drinks or whatever. And then I went to working for myself, just being at home all day, basically not socializing. It's kind of a big change when you go from making maybe like $10,000 a month

00:07:03 to 200 a month and you're basically hanging out with no one. So being a soloreneur can be pretty depressing. Another thing is people often don't really get what you're doing, especially when you're failing to make money. I remember in the first two years people didn't understand why I did it and they would also, you know, hear the revenue and they would tell me, "Oh, this is like a crappy business. you shouldn't go after this. And then multiple years later when it's making a lot more money, those same people will say like, "Oh,

00:07:24 it's a great business." Some pros, it's good to have your own schedule. Often I wake up and go hiking instead of going to work. It's nice to be like on a different schedule to everyone else. If you're starting up a VC back startup, you have a boss, you have investors, you got a lot of time pressure. As a soloreneur, you can go a bit slower. I mean, depending on how much money you have saved up, and you can also go after much smaller markets. A venture capitalist wouldn't want to invest in bank statement converter. It doesn't

00:07:45 make enough money. The market's not big enough. But for a single person, you know, it's enough, right? And you can be quite happy with that revenue. >> Cool. Now, you have this great business. You're a solopreneur. What were you doing before? Were you a developer? What was your kind of journey to starting your own business? >> I've always been a developer. In 2010, I worked for an EPS machine company. 2010 to 2014. I worked for myself developing indie games for the Xbox Live indie game store. I also developed a virtual

00:08:08 girlfriend app for Android and iOS. It's called Girlfriend Plus. 2017 to 2019, I worked in an investment bank in Hong Kong. 2020 I worked at a crypto company. We're building a crypto exchange. 2021 I launched bank statement converter. >> Okay. Let's talk about tech stack. I know you're a developer. Can you share with me the entire stack of how you built this app? The core engine is written in Cotlin. It's like a JVM language. Nex.js is what the front end is written in. I use Brevo for transactional emails. I use AWS EC2

00:08:36 instances to host the back end. Netlefi to host the front end. Stripe for payment processing. And that's about it. a lot of profit. It's like 39 out of $40,000 is profit. Yeah. >> All right. So, you built this awesome business. You've been working on it for a number of years. What have you learned in the process that surprised you? >> In the first two years, I was working extremely hard on the business and making basically no money. You know, I spent a lot of hours developing the app. I'd reply to customer emails as soon as

00:09:00 possible. If a customer email came in at 3:00 a.m., I would deal with it right away. You know, at that time, every extra customer made a big impact on MR. And what I realized was that those first two years of hard work, you don't get paid much, but you kind of get the money for that hard work in like years four and onwards. The last question that I want to ask is what we ask everyone who comes on to Starter Story. If you could stand on Angus' shoulder when you quit your job, you're building that app. It was making a few dollars in revenue.

00:09:26 What advice would you give him? >> SAS is an excellent business model. Make sure you save enough money to survive multiple years of no income. If you only have enough money for a few months of runway, you're probably not going to make it, you know? I mean, it took me two or three years before I could pay rent with the revenue I was getting in. Ignore social media. That's, you know, a lot of people think they need to build a following on social media before building a business. I think it's a waste of time. Building a following on

00:09:49 social media is hard work. And even if you have it, your business might still not be very good. So, just focus on the business. Focus on the product. Get some real users. Improve the product. And it should be easy to get more users if your product solves their problem. Don't make a Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter page for your business. See a lot of people do this, and I think it's a waste of time as well. That was awesome. Thank you, Angus, for coming on. I love the business that you built. It's going to keep growing. It's awesome. Thanks for

00:10:11 sharing everything with the audience and hope to see you back on soon. Angus is proof that you can build simple apps that actually make money. He found a tiny problem, built a solution for himself, and then turned it into a life-changing business. I think anyone can take this framework and strategy and turn it into their own micro SASS. If you want to learn more about how to build simple apps, check out Starter Story Build. In about 2 weeks, you'll go from a simple idea to a fully operational app. We'll guide you on how

00:10:39 to use AI to build and design your app, and then we'll challenge you on how to launch it into the real world. Just head to the link in the description to learn more and join Starter Story Build. All right, guys. Thanks for watching. I'll see you in the next one. Peace.

00:00:01 So basically I work all days all year long. I love my day so much that I want to repeat it every single day. I don't like Sundays cuz my my fun is actually making stuff. So I don't see why I would take a day off and when I go on holiday usually I I go mad. I've met like hundreds of people who talked about their brilliant idea. The idea is in their head or maybe on their computer but they haven't shipped it. And on the other side, I cannot recall a single person who told me like, "Hey, you know, I have tried 10 times and it

00:00:32 never worked." Just remember to keep shipping. Hey, I'm Mark Lou. I make $77,000 a month as a solo entrepreneur. I have built 35 startups. And people often ask me, uh, how do I get so much done? So, today I'm excited to tell you about how I work. My days might sound boring for some people, but I leave the exact same day almost every day, 365 days a year. I always start the day with a coffee and breakfast with wife and then I hit the gym right after. We train at the gym together. These days, we're practicing for Hy Rocks. We

00:01:15 did a little bit of a sled push and some squat and some running. Uh then we go back home. That's the moment where I start to put myself in work mode. Um, I don't check my phone. I don't do emails. I don't go online. I stay completely offline at the beginning of the day. I just want to have this big block of time that is usually 4 to 6 hours where I really deep work. The reason I don't check social medias is because I feel like there's a there's so much going on at the moment, especially with AI, that I get this fear

00:01:47 of missing out, that I'm not fast enough, that I should do more, and then it's 1 hour later and I lost 1 hour of my day and I feel like I I lack some motivation to go back to work and stuff. The deep work is basically a moment of time that I protect cuz that's what got me here and I know that, you know, I need to get this deep work done if I want to go further. So, this this little boy here is completely off cuz that's the worst enemy. Um, and then I open the computer here at this desk. I open my code editor

00:02:14 and I spend the next four to 6 hours coding stuff. So, I only create things. Um, I don't check my emails. I don't check customer support cuz sometimes you read an email that something is broken in my app and I have to fix it. If that happens at the beginning of the day, then I'll fix this bug instead of actually working on what truly matters for me, which is creating more stuff. I shipped about 35 startups and on those 35 30 of them are nothing. They don't work. They barely don't make any money. They barely don't have any users. So the

00:02:54 hit rate is about 5%. So if you want to roll the dice once and you know stick with that dice roll, nothing crazy will happen. But if you keep playing, you keep playing, playing playing, playing playing and playing, at some point one dice, one roll of dice will work. You will have happy users. You'll start to make money. You can leave your job. You can roll the dice more often. When I was a student, if you tell me that my routine is uh waking up at 6:00 a.m. and uh working all day on my computer and not playing video games,

00:03:20 I would think, you know, I'm crazy stupid. But the thing is, at some point, I started to see people liking the work. I started to see my apps having users were happy about the product. And then the routine came in in place as a part of like oh okay so if you stick to a routine then more of this will happen so stick to it. Now I really try to think less about what would be the output. I just try to think what what is the thing I want to exist. So recently I launched this little Mac OS app that analyze your posture with a webcam and tells me if

00:03:54 I'm sitting straight or if I'm just slouching like a shrimp like this. I did that because I spend so much time on my computer and I know it sucks to sit like a shrimp. So I was like, "Oh, this app must exist." And it's a new type of app for me. It's like electron apps like Mac OS. So I'm not used to Mac OS apps. So before I released it on that day, I wanted to do, you know, a last few checks like is the licensing system works when people get a checkout? Do they get the email? 300 p.m.ish, I think, I launched the app. So he went

00:04:22 live with a tweet. Um, I also shared on LinkedIn threads and Reddit and got the first customers. It was amazing. I think on Thursday we did about 1,000 in in revenue. Uh, got also good feedback. People started to post stuff on Twitter. I started to see like my app in news in my users hands which is the ultimate happy moments for me. There's the other type of apps that I like to make. They spark my curiosity. For instance, one of them was trustm and it started because I saw a tweet from Peter Levelvels that say that so many

00:04:53 people are faking their revenue. But I felt like, oh, you know, it's fun like what if I make a little board that showcase, you know, all the verified revenues of all those people so we can see who's a scammer and who's telling the truth. And just like this was born an app that turned into a marketplace now that in itself it makes like 35 plusk per month. Um I have a big list of things I have to make. So I have a few apps that are already running. Among them there are features like important features I have to ship. Initially I didn't have many

00:05:26 problems but as you start to make stuff you will get feedback from people you will discover problems and that will give you ideas. Now I have a to-do list that even if I leave 200 years I wouldn't be able to make all my ideas real. Every single day at the end of the day I have more stuff on my to-do list than I did at the beginning. And then once I'm done with the cycle, so now I've released this Mac OS app. I can move on. I will just go over my lease and there's this gut feeling over like among those features, among those

00:05:49 things, which one would have the most impact on the users, which one would make me the happiest and I would just pick whatever comes next. We're always afraid to show our new creation and uh your ideals to the world in the first time. Just keep in mind that that that's the biggest barrier to your success ever. There's this little voice inside of your head telling you that it's too early or it's not good enough. It's a bit like um going to the gym for the first time. You see people on Instagram, they lift super heavy and

00:06:25 then you enter the gym, you don't know the machines, you don't know how it works and all that, but the moment you step in and you know, you do one session, everything is not new. It's like you've you've done it and then the next session is completely different. So, it's a one-time fear. You kill 80% of it by doing it once and then the remaining 20% you will just kill it with more iterations. But then it just become easier and easier. >> The only way to validate an idea is to ship it with a buy button. Now with AI

00:07:00 that it's even easier to ship stuff. This even more true. I have a slightly controversial take on AI is that there's a bunch of people who are obsessed with productivity and want to do more. You know, they start to have their open call like teams of agent running in the background. But I think the the single KPI that matters hasn't changed in the AI era. It's still the number of things you ship. Right now, my setup is the most boring setup ever. Like I I code I I see my same code editor and on the right side I have the chat single

00:07:28 threaded like I talk to an AI, it makes a new feature, I release it, I move on to the next one. I've shipped like 300 features on my marketplace in the last three months and six new apps this year in 2026 with it and people fall for the productivity thing trick when in fact you could do a lot of things with one of the first version of Chad GBT and a basic code editor something is missing >> towards the end of the day maybe 400 p.m. I'll go online. I'll check Twitter. I'll check my emails. I'll do the work that I find a little bit more boring.

00:08:03 That's something that is less creative. 5:30 dinner. Usually we spend way too much time uh eating because we watched again better call. And then usually we have a a nice walk and that's the moment where I switch everything completely off like very radical. So I turn my phone off. Um I go offline, the computer is off. There's no talk about work. Uh sometimes watch a movie, sometimes we read a bed before going to read a book before going to bed. and we go on bed at the exact same time every single day at 9:00 p.m.

00:08:34 It's a bit religious. Uh before bed, we have a windown routine that lasts 30 minutes to 1 hour. We start to deem the light at home and then when you go to bed, you fall asleep instantly. I never set up an alarm and I would always wake up around 6 to 7. since I I was a student like the first 10 years like 18 to 20 you know eight years old I would always be sleepy like I would be on my computer and as soon as I had to focus on some tasks I would fall asleep with a good sleep I feel like I'm so much more emotionally stable I have like super

00:09:03 locked in focus like I could spend like 4 hours on the same thing so I think sleep is really underrated I think it's so important One thing I see people making that mistake too often is they got this idea, this brilliant idea, they spend 6 months shipping it and once they ship it, they got a few users, they may maybe they make a little bit of money online that is like become their very pet project. it become very important for them that they're so emotionally attached to it and they will still focusing on something that maybe it will take three

00:09:38 years until it takes off and pays enough for you to quit your job. But it's much easier to keep rolling the dice and ship a new idea because that idea might take off like 100x faster than the previous one and every time you ship something new you learn more stuff you share about it so you grow a little audience of people who discover your work. So, I really think that playing the game of launching stuff is the recipe to have something that at some point will work out. Don't you dare give up. Don't you dare give up.