How To Market Your Business On Social Media

0:00 If you want more eyes on your business and more sales in your bank account social media marketing
0:05 is the way to go. In this video, let's talk about how to market your business on social media.
0:18 Here's the thing, I want to let you in on a big secret. There are three main objectives
0:23 to keep in mind with marketing your business on social media and if you don't have this
0:28 then your strategy is broken. Then I'm going to share with you three proven tactics for landing
0:33 clients, growing your business, getting clients that even you love to work with and that love
0:38 to pay you. What are the objectives of social media marketing? I am so glad you asked, there's three of them.
0:45 You ready for it? Lead generation, lead nurture and lead conversion. If you don't have those
0:51 then your business is broken, and you're just creating content for the sake of content, and
0:55 you're going to keep running on this hamster wheel, and you and your business deserve way
0:58 more than that. Every single piece of content you create to market your business on social media
1:03 should be reaching and accomplishing one of these three or all of these three. Lead generation, lead
1:08 nurture, and lead conversion. Every single piece of content should be reverse engineering what it
1:13 is that you have to sell and how is that piece of content either generating, nurturing or converting.
1:19 Sometimes they can even be leading to all three. For example, I might have a post where I'm telling
1:24 a story about a strategy that I use that changed my life, that changed my business, that helped me
1:29 to make more money and I could say, "Click the link below to get access to this thing. I'm going to
1:34 give it to you for free today." That post, that piece of content, because it has a strong call to action
1:39 is going to generate a lead. Because they can click through that call to action and they can join
1:44 my email list. Which then, they are going to be nurtured. But even if I back up to that
1:49 post itself where I'm telling a really engaging story that I've created it with
1:54 the strategy in mind. That I want to give them this epiphany, that they walk away with thinking,
1:58 "That's the way that I can now also get this result." It's nurturing them before I've even
2:03 generated that lead and then the conversion comes on the back end after they've opted into my email
2:09 list and maybe I have a nurturing email sequence that then brings them towards purchasing. You know,
2:14 a consulting call with me or purchasing one of my courses and that's the conversion. So think about
2:19 how every single piece of content is accomplishing one or all of those three, lead generation,
2:24 lead nurture, and lead conversion. I would recommend you actually write that down on a sticky note,
2:29 put it beside your computer. So that you keep that in mind and never forget that when you're creating
2:32 content. Because we are not here to create content for the sake of content. That's like throwing
2:37 spaghetti at the wall and seeing what sticks. We're not about that. We are doing this intentionally to
2:41 grow our businesses, right? After hearing that I want to know what you think about that?
2:45 Have you ever thought about that before? Have you unintentionally been just creating content
2:50 for the sake of content or have you been using these three? Let me know in the comments below.
2:54 Having an effective social media marketing strategy is so important, why? Because this isn't
2:58 a hobby, this is a business. We're not doing this just for fun although, your business should be fun.
3:04 We want to be creating something that is going to give us an ROI a return on investment. A return on
3:09 energy, a turn on the money that we invest, a return on the time that we invest. Ideally, we want to
3:15 be able to reach more people and you know it's kind of funny when I hear people talk about
3:19 you know get rich quick schemes. I'm not trying to help you get rich slowly either. So when you have a
3:23 strategy that's going to be the fastest path to cash, to growing your business, to reaching more
3:28 people, and making the impact that you want to make, and social media marketing can be one of
3:32 the most effective ways. Because our audiences are on social media all the time and if we know how
3:38 to utilize that to reach them, to give them value, and then to lead gen, lead nurture, and convert them
3:44 into a customer. That's how we're going to grow and that's how we're also going to be able to make our
3:48 impact in the world. By allowing them to grow in the ways that our products and services provide.
3:52 So just posting, just creating content, spray and pray, putting it out, throwing spaghetti at the wall.
3:58 That's not a strategy. Again, go back to lead generation, lead nurture, and lead conversion,
4:04 that is your strategy. So even if you're brand new to business. You might be thinking, "Well, how
4:08 do I create a strategy if I've never done this before? I got to test my content." Absolutely,
4:14 but you're also going to test your content with intention. As a new business or an existing
4:18 business these following tips are going to be really important for you, to make sure that you
4:21 have them in place. First of all, is your branding so that people can recognize you. If I were to say
4:26 to you right now, just do it. What does that make you think of? Nike, right? If I showed you these
4:33 golden arches. What would that make you think of? McDonald's, right? They have these images or they
4:39 have this slogan that is recognizable all over the world. Think about how you can create your branding
4:45 to be memorable for your audience. Something that they resonate with. Something that they get a
4:49 feeling about. I mean, I don't know about you but I think about Nike, and I think about athleticism,
4:53 I think about excellence, I think about hard work and determination, and perseverance. I think about
4:58 McDonald's and I think about happy meals. I loved having meals as a kid. It made me happy. It was
5:03 this like fun experience with my brother, my little brother, or my parents, or my friends. You know, the
5:08 birthday parties and the jungle gyms and stuff. It's a fun experience for me. What do you want
5:12 your business to be about and how can you make sure that everything you put out on social media
5:17 is aligned with that branding? The other piece of creating your branding is going to be the stories
5:21 that you tell. So I recommend for every client that I ever work with or for anyone that ever listens
5:26 to these videos to create a story inventory. Write that down, story inventory. What is your story?
5:34 You have multiple stories. You have your origin story of how you came to be who you are today.
5:39 What was the thing that encouraged you to grow or start this business that you have,
5:44 and what are the pivotal moments along the way that taught you lessons or shaped you into who
5:49 you are today? I would actually recommend having a google doc or a huge notebook where you just brain
5:54 dump all of your stories. This might be childhood lessons, it might be experiences with your family,
6:01 it might be you discovering your expertise or your skills, or what it was that encouraged you to start
6:06 this business that you have today, and anytime you create a piece of content you can go to your story
6:10 inventory and share one of those stories in your content, that people are going to resonate with.
6:15 The reason why I urge you to tell stories in your content is because stories stand the test
6:20 of time. Stories have been brought through from generation to generation. The things that carry
6:25 on our culture or generations of wisdom is the stories that we tell and that we carry on, and as
6:32 you tell these stories people resonate with them. They're captivated, they move in closer,
6:36 they want to hear them. Think about your favorite movies that you love to watch. You're following a
6:41 storyline. You're connecting with the protagonist the main character. You're on the edge of your
6:45 seat watching them as they go through their trials and their tribulations and by the end of the movie
6:50 why do you feel that adrenaline rush or sometimes that like serotonin or dopamine hit? That you just
6:55 love this character that you fall in love with over the last like an hour and a half to two hours.
7:00 Well, it's because you've watched their journey from start to finish. It's that you watch them
7:05 hit rock bottom. You watch them climb their way up and because of that, you cheer louder when they win.
7:11 Whether that means they got the girl or landed the dream job or won the race. You got to see
7:16 what they went through and you resonate with them. Whether you've been in the same experience or that
7:21 you can relate to something similar that you've experienced. When you can share that through your
7:25 content that's going to create this undeniable connection with your audience. You know, I see a
7:29 lot of new businesses focus too much on fun facts and tidbits, instead of going deep into the stories.
7:36 When I first started my business I was a social media manager and I was also a full-time dental
7:40 hygienist. That was one of my first jobs is, I was doing social media for the dental office
7:45 I worked at and sure I could have made posts about how many times a day to brush your teeth and
7:49 and fun facts about cavities and fluoride and stuff. But that's not the stuff that makes
7:54 people stop scrolling. That's not the stuff that captivates them and makes them think about it
7:58 for for days on end. The stuff that makes them stop what they're doing and pay attention is the story.
8:04 So, I would find stories from the people at our office or I would make up a funny story about
8:09 our office goldfish and that's the thing that gets a reaction. So think about that as you're
8:13 creating your content. There's nothing wrong with sharing those fun facts and those tidbits. But can
8:18 you tie it into a story that people will actually stop the scroll and pay attention to? Now before
8:24 I tell you about my proven tactics to landing your dream clients through social media. Make sure that
8:28 you hit that subscribe button. If you're an entrepreneur and you're looking to up-level
8:32 and grow and scale your business, make sure to subscribe. Because I'm putting out videos
8:35 like this every week. Okay, how to land your dream clients on social media? I have three tactics I'm
8:40 going to share with you. The first one is a strong call to action at the end of every single video.
8:44 Remember when I was giving the example about lead generation. Maybe I tell this really great story
8:49 and I segue it into giving them the answer to that if they click the link below and they get the PDF,
8:55 or the ebook or they watch the next video or they sign up for a webinar. Whatever that thing
9:00 is that next step that I want them to take. By telling them what to do, by inviting them, that is
9:06 a call to action. That's me saying, "Here's the next step that you can take to get more value from me.
9:11 Click the link below." It's a strong call to action. When I first started creating content on social
9:16 media I didn't know what that was. I didn't know that I'm supposed to tell them what to
9:19 do next. I think I kind of assumed like, "Well, if they like the video, maybe they'll subscribe or
9:24 maybe they'll reach out to me, maybe they'll email me." You can't assume that because they don't know
9:29 that they're supposed to do that or they don't have a reason to. You have to give them a reason to act.
9:33 So having a strong call to action telling them where to go, that's where you also get to actively
9:38 pursue that relationship. It's like being on a date with somebody, if you were on a date and you wanted
9:43 to have that second date. I mean, sure you can play hard to get but they might also be thinking,
9:48 "Did that even go well? Do they like me? Should this go anywhere?", and then what if that's
9:52 like a misconnection. Instead, just ask for the second date, ask them to take action click the
9:57 link below, join your email list and continue that relationship. Speaking of dating, the next
10:02 concept that I love to share is know, like, trust. Your audience to be able to take that action
10:08 needs to know you, like you, and trust you, and I use this dating analogy to create that image for you.
10:13 That you're not just going right in for the proposal. You're nurturing your audience through
10:18 this valuable content. So that when you do have that call to action it's a no-brainer. Because
10:24 they know you, they like you, they trust you. if you didn't take the effort to date your audience.
10:28 It would be the equivalent of someone coming up to you on the street and being like, "Hey want to get
10:33 married?". You're like, "I don't know you. You don't know my last name. You haven't taken me to dinner."
10:38 You gotta get to know your audience and they need to get to know you, and that's by creating valuable
10:42 content. Now, that's not to say that you can't have calls to action your content right from the get-go.
10:47 But that you lead with value before you bring them to a call to action, and the way we do that
10:53 is through the third tactic that I like to call the 80/20 rule. Now this can be 80% and 20%
10:59 in one piece of content or it can be 80/20 in your whole content structure. So an example is
11:05 you know the post example that I gave you before. Where I told a story and that's like 80 percent of
11:10 the post and 20 percent of the post was the call to action. So I led with value, I told them a story
11:16 that hopefully tugged at their heartstrings or showed them the path and painted that that picture
11:21 of what life could be like if they follow this strategy that I'm about to tell them when they
11:25 click the link below. So having the 80/20 rule is going to be really important for building that
11:29 know like trust factor. Dating your audience and leading to the call to action in a way that isn't
11:34 abrasive like going straight for the proposal. So remember all in all lead with lead generation, lead
11:40 nurture, and lead conversion. When you have that in mind with every piece of content you create
11:44 that's what's going to boost brand loyalty and sales. If you want to learn more about creating
11:49 content that converts into cash flow and builds a raving audience for you. I have a training on just
11:54 the thing. If you click the link below you can get free access to my next training, I'll see you there.