
Welcome everyone. This is going to be a   nofluff programmatic SEO course. The   most actionable course on programmatic   SEO you'll ever watch in your entire   life. Going to give you exactly every   single thing you need to do to make sure   that you are able to successfully   implement a programmatic SEO campaign   into any of your brands.

 Now, there's   three things we need to know before we   get started. Like programmatic SEO is   based off of three things. First, your   variables, right? We're programming a   campaign, your variables. then the   generation prompt and then the markdown   outline. Now few years back where there   was no AI, this did not exist.

 We only   had variables and only had the markdown   outline. Now we have the generation   prompt which makes it so doing   programmatic SEO is that more effective.   So first I want to go over the   theoretical part of it and then actually   showing you the practice on how to apply   it.

 Now full disclosure, I'm going to be   using my own software to do this. If you   can find any other software that can do   the same thing, go ahead and use it. I   don't think there is. I think we're the   best software out there for AI   programmatic SEO. And I'll show you how   exactly how to do it in my software. And   if you think this is too expensive or if   you just don't like me and don't want to   use my product, you can use something   else.

 But I need some software to help   show you how programmatic SEO can be   done. And so that's why I'm going to use   mine. But full disclosure, if you buy   it, I make money. That said, it's not   not that expensive. I'm going I'm going   to give you a code at the end you can   which you can use to do your   programmatic SEO.

 So let's go over first   the theoretical part of it. What are the   variables? Well, variables pretty simply   like for programmatic SEO to generate,   right? We associate variables so you can   import bulk content for generation. In   other words, if you want to generate a   bunch of programmatic SEO pages, right?   Let's say for example, you're targeting   a hey uh service, right? Service   location, right? You want to be able   page for this.

 You want to be able to of   course in have pages be created for hey   uh sofa cleaning in London or sofa   cleaning in um Texas or for example   phone repair in Wyoming. So again the   location is because when you upload a   sheet right then for example have it   right here like a sheet of all my   locations. When I upload this into the   the software, it has to be able to   create based off of these variables that   location in includes a bunch of   locations and in this case the service   only includes one.

 Generate a bunch of   programmatic pages where the only thing   or the main thing that changes is the   variable location. Hopefully that made   sense. We need variables and again I put   two here but you can create as many   variables as you want. Second thing is   the markdown outline, right? And again I   will go over all this.

 We will construct   this in the course don't worry. But the   markdown outline basically defines right   defines the outline i.e. how the content   looks like in the front end. Right? If   for example I say hey include include uh   first include an H1 then include an   image then I want you to include a table   or and then I want you to include an H2   with two paragraphs below it and then an   H3.

 Or maybe I could just say hey listen   don't include an image just include an   H1 then an H2 with a table and then   include an H3 with like a bunch of   bullets. So I can basically mark down in   code. super easy to do how I want the   outline to look. For example, in this   case, we just did an H1, one hashtag   means H1, and then a featured image, and   then just a short intro.

 Then we just   did an H2, an image as well, and then   this right here. Then we did an H2, but   we could do for we could do like   another, we could do an H3 right here,   or we can do three images if you want.   Again, we'll go over all this stuff.   Don't worry, this is just a theoretical   part. So, this is the markdown outline.

  Again, this defines the front end, how   the all the content looks like. Okay?   And then we have the generation prompt.   This is what's new, right? This is where   the AI tech comes in where it allows you   to basically this is the brains behind   how the AI writes the content basically   the prompt right because sure you can   just use this and this and just based   off of the variables like service let's   say the service is sofa cleaning and   city we have uh London we have   Washington we have a bunch of ones   doesn't matter right well in theory   instead of you saying short intro one to   two paragraphs explaining why service   matters in city right you can just write   it all that being said because you have   this generation prompt you afford to   have this right here because then the AI   fills in this gap with your generation   prompt. So this is the theoretical part   of it. If you have any questions, let me   know down below in the comments. But now   let's go over the actual implementation   and then I'll give you some tips at the   end. So again, I'm using Arvo my own   software. And what we're doing here is   you're creating a custom template,   right? Click create custom template. Now   here, let's call it for example, hey, uh

  programmatic SEO SEO. Let's just say for   example, yeah, service plus location.   Okay. Now in our generation prompt, I'll   just I guess I'll just copy the one I   that I created before. Right. Right   here.   Programmatic SEO service plus location.   Right. Our generation prompt is you are   an experienced SEO content strategist.

  Write a high quality SEO optimized   landing page. Include a featured image.   Include three in article images at   positions defined in the outline. So   again, the generation prompt and the   outline of the article speak back and   forth between each other. Okay. Then I   can also do for examp I I can do   anything I want. Okay.

 Um, this target   service is service. Here's where we add   our variables. And the target location   is location. Now, this is all explained   right here, right? These instructions   will affect the entire article. Make   sure you're as precise as possible in   order to create in order to create or   use variables, use the notation   variable.

 So, I can do for example the   company providing   the service is company, right? Again, I   can do anything I want. I can add as   many variables as I want and I can show   other examples. For example, right here,   this is a buying guide review, right? Uh   the prompt is write a buyer intent   review article, include a featured   image, include three in article images.

  Okay? And right here, I need to put   right here, right? The product is   product. The use case is   use   case, right? Simple as. Now, I guess   before I continue, I should show you a   couple of examples. So if I go here to   these let's say for example I used the   template uh right here I use the   template for example niche or glossery   definition pages right a clear authority   definition page include featured image   include 3D article images concept is   variable concept industries develop   industry optimize for AI citations and   search engines then the outline is what   is concept featured image and then a   short definition and then an H2 of the   concept explained image and then again   brief explanation into bullet points and   then add another H2Y concept matters in   industry and then short paragraphs and   you get the point. So if I take a look   at this of one article that was   generated programmatically using this I   can just do it right here. I think I

  used um facades. Yeah, there you go. Uh   what is a facade? So the variable for um   the variable for the concept was facade   and the industry was architecture. And   so again as it says right image short   explainer H2 like concept explained   simply image and then a bullet of what   it is and then why concept matters in   industry bullets again.

 So this was the   template I chose. Again you can choose   any template you want but you can see   here that the the how the content looks   like is exactly the same right as I   defined it to look like in my template   in this case niche glossery definition   pages. It's the exact same thing. Again   I I can change it.

 I could say, "Hey,   make sure to write um or give these   examples bullet." Okay, then write a   five um or a 500 or a 500 long word   paragraph paragraph talk talking about   it more in depth. Also add a table,   right? And then I can again this is the   markdown language, right? To add an   image, I have to do it like this. So I   can just do add a bunch of images right   here and then comment on the images   above.

 Again, we could do literally   anything we want here. Point is that   this markdown outline as I showed you   right here, right? This will define how   the output front end of your article   looks like. And again, you can do   anything you want here. You can create   your own custom template based on how   you want your programmatic SEO articles   to look like.

 But know that this stuff   right here when you say stuff like for   example um bullet subservices with   oneline explanations or for example   short paragraph plus bold price ranges   this right here right if you don't have   the generation prompt it won't know what   to write right here it's the if if this   didn't exist you just you you just   telling it short paragraph plus plus   bullet price ranges the the the software   has no idea what you want with this   right so you have to specify it in the   generation prompt that's why it's so   important And that's why these two go   hand in hand, your generation prompt and   your markdown outline. Now, what I   suggest is you just test it out for   yourself and play play around with it   with it a bit. But there you go. Let's   go back to what I was saying before,   right? In this main uh example, right,   we went over over the generation prompt.   Now, we're looking at the uh markdown   outline, which is simply service in   location. I could just do for example,   hey, the best service in location uh you   need to try it from or company. Again,

  we can change this. We can put whatever   you want. Now, I'll just I'll just do   some uh generation right now so you guys   can see how it works. So, I can go here   to um I can choose the custom template I   want that I that I created right here. I   could click it and I can add the   service.

 Let's just do for example uh   sofa cleaning and let's just do NYC.   Now, this if I add an article right   here, it will do it manually. Right? If   I want to do like make this in bulk, I   just click here click here import file   upload file. And for example, I can do I   can just go into chatd and ask it to   give me a list of the 30 burrows in   London.

 All these right here, I just   pasted them into my Excel sheet, right?   Service, I'll just leave it at one. I   mean, you can do you can do this, as I'm   sure you know, you can do programmatic   SEO for multiple services in multiple   locations at once. But for this video   sake, I'll just do it for one in all   these locations, right? I can then take   this, I can download it, I can click   here, I can download it, right? And I   can then upload it here into the   software, right? And it will take into   account here.

 I'll automatically match,   right, the service variable into the   service right here, okay, that I did.   and it will automatically match as well   the location variable into the location   that I have right here. So you can just   hit import articles and what this will   do is it will create 30 articles, right,   that I can then generate based off of my   template just like that.

 And you can   fully automate the whole thing. There   you go. Custom articles imported   successfully. So if I go here into the   inputs and I scroll down, I have them   all right here. I have them all right   here. And I can just click to generate.   I can just I can show you the input,   right? The service is the same in all   them, right? But barking in that   whatever I can just generate one.

 Let me   just do for example I don't know let's   just do let's just do the first one or   this right here which was a sofa   cleaning in can just put this right here   and just to generate article and again   the output to this will be exactly based   off of how my custom programmatic SEO   article template looked like which for   myself it was just this right here.

  Again if I don't like it I can just   change I can add things I can remove   things I can add as many variables as I   want. Point being is that for your   programmatic SEO, you have to have a   template. We call it custom templates   here in Arvo. A RV, right? You have to   have your generation prompt. Be   specific. Specify your variables.

  Specify what you want and be cohesive.   Right? If you say include three in   article images, well, make sure that   down here you have three sections where   you include in article images, right? We   have one, two, three. Don't have like   four or five or six or two, right? Make   sure it's cohesive between the markdown   outline or and excuse me the generation   prompt.

 And again, you can change things   around. So let's just see how this   turned out. Let me go here to   generations. It is generating. So I'll   be back in a few seconds once this is   done loading. Okay, so it's done. Let's   just take a look at it. And right here,   sofa cleaning in location, right? U   there you go. And then there's the   feature damage.

 By the way, this is all   done with AI, right? This looks great.   Table of contents, right? There's the   image we added. There's a little intro   again. What is service? Um boom, boom,   boom. service is whatever in location.   So the H2 again with the bullet again   this is just following the same um   strategy we outlined. Okay.

 And if like   you don't like something again this is   not really programmatic right now. This   will be manually editing but you can   like you can change things around. You   can for example select parts of it and   say hey I want to add links again. This   is not programmatic SEO because you're   doing it manually.

 If you want, you can   do it, right? That you can, for example,   uh even select parts of it and say,   "Hey, uh add keywords or rewrite things,   make a list, make a table, or even use   custom prompts like uh make sure to   mention XYZ or rhyme every word with   orange, etc." You can you can play   around with this or you can just change   full-on sections as as if you're   speaking with catchy saying, for   example, hey, add a section about XYZ or   add a table or mention my brand more   times or don't mention this brand, etc.

  Again, not programmatic, but you get the   point. Or if you want, you can just go   here and say, let me just try this one.   Um, let's just do add a dog. I always do   this with this example, but I'll do it   again where what hap what's going to   happen right here is that the AI is   going to take into account the whole   article.

 The AI is going to take into   account the existing image and the   context of the image in the article and   try to add the dog or try to paste on my   prompt, which in this case it's adding a   dog. It will try to include my prompt   and change the image image, excuse me,   taking all that into account. Again, not   programmatic as here right here because   it's manually, but there you go.

 It's   same kept the same thing sofa and added   a dog in a sofa. Boom. There you go.   Again, point being is that this was all   done using here in my blog automation   campaigns. Uh my own custom template for   um programmatic SEO based off of my   generation prompt and my outline right   here.

 And again, you can create any   custom template you want and automate   your programmatic SEO like that. Because   then once you have your template, right,   once I have this done right here, once   this is right here fully set up with my   variables, all this stuff, I can just go   here every single time. Uh, boom. And uh   either add my service and do it manually   or just import file import uh import   articles and then I can set up an   automatic blog, right? I can just   connect this right here with my CMS.

  Let's say for example, WordPress. Then I   can have an automatic blog running on   the back end automatically generating   and and publishing all these   programmatically generated SEO articles   to my site. So not only not only does   Arvo ARV help you with the setting up of   the programmatic SEO for the templates   and generation, it also helps you with   the automatic publishing of of it to   your site.

 So we fully end to end   automate the whole programmatic SEO   aspect of things which is pretty cool.   Uh now if I go back here to my magic   whiteboard where we look at all this   stuff, right? There's two actually   before that before the the little   bonuses tip again. First thing you have   to do because I want to make sure that   this is very actionable is you go to   Arvo, you create your custom templates,   right? Then you import your variables,   then you connect your CMS, right? And   then you automate the whole thing.

 The   generation plus publishing with the   autoblock feature. You can have it so   it's fully automated, right? Or you can   make it a planned automation. If you   want to learn a bit more about this,   just go here into the um go to your to   our docs, our help docs. We have this   all laid out for you like in simple   documentation and training videos as   well. So check it out. It's quite easy.

  It doesn't make any sense that I going   to explain it right here because it's   super easy. Or if you have any   questions, just go here and click and   talk with uh Carvalu. He helps you with   anything you need. He's our he's   basically our one-to-one um guy you can   reach out to for questions or support on   an actual live call, which is pretty   cool.

 [snorts] Uh now, with that being   said, here's some two I guess extra tips   um for for helping you with your   programmatic SEO. First one is uh you   can do a whole workflow for YouTube to   blog at automation. Now, even though   this is not based off a template, you   can change right again because with this   you can create your own template as we   did right here.

 You can create your own   template, right? The YouTube to blog   post template is not uh something you   can change. Here's what I mean. Let's   say for example, I own a car detailing   service, okay? And I just go here for I   I go for example Car Wow. I know car wow   makes videos on they review cars they do   car drag races they review car pricing   etc.

 What I can do is I can take for   example a video right here on this I can   just copy the URL. I can go into Arvo   right here and I can click on YouTube to   blog post. I can just add the URL right   here. Add the video and what the AI will   do is will take into account or   basically convert the whole video right   into if I click here generate article   into a written form article.

 Now oh I   don't have enough credits. Let me just   top up the account real quick. There you   go. Just like that I have 100 more   credits and click on generate article.   What this will do is you will take into   account that video and convert it into a   YouTube post. I can even show you right   here one that I did before. Right? Boom.

  You converted this video which was on   how to build backlinks into a full-on   article. You converted the info from the   video into a fully written article. And   I can automate the whole thing. I can go   here to uh feeds. I can click on create   feed. I can make the feed be a YouTube   channel.

 So if I add here this channel   right here or excuse me can if I can do   channel slash uh channel name. Let's do   car wow right? just that URL right here   from the actual channel. What this will   do is that when they push out a new   video, right, I have this feed that   automatically knows when they push out a   new video, which then I can connect this   with an automatic blog that   automatically generates and conver   converts the videos they upload into   blog posts and publish them straight to   my site. Fully automated.

 And if you're   wondering if this works, well, if you go   to arvo.com/case studies or click on   resources and click on case studies, we   have a bunch of them. in specific this   guy right here which is a French guy. He   owns a marketing agency. He did this   exact same thing. You can watch the   video right here.

 He converted a bunch   of YouTube videos, right? A bunch of   YouTube videos into written articles.   Not only that, he did something extra   extra on top which was that he converted   the videos which were in English into   written articles. Oh, English into   written articles in French. So, not only   did it convert the medium of consumption   from video to written format, it also   converted a language. Right.

 So, this   works fantastically and it works   nowadays even better because, not sure   if you saw this, this was a video I   uploaded like a while like last week or   this week. Um, Adrift did a study on   over 75,000 brands. It's this right   here. Again, I'll link it in the   description where they found that the   biggest factor of showing up on LM is   being mentioned on YouTube.

 So, the info   on YouTube videos highly sought after by   LM. So, if you can take the info from   YouTube videos be that they that are   yours or not, and post it to your site,   you can also be mentioned. Again, if   this is a a long video, I just I just   compressed all the info on here in like   10 seconds.

 Go watch it if you want to   learn a bit more about how this   automation works, why it's available,   and why you should uh in my opinion   follow this uh I guess bonus tip for   fully automating your SEO workflows.   Again, not very much programmatic SEO,   right? But it is a bonus tip. And also   what you can do is the same thing but   for news content which Arvo also helps   with.

 You can go here and you can   generate newsbased content. And how this   differs basically is that a news-based   content is um we cite it right we when   when you're writing a news piece right   you have to know where you got the info   from. So if I go here generations just   looking at one that I did in the past   right here when you write a piece of   news content right it says it sites the   sources down here.

 So it's different   right? There's different types of   content you can generate with Arvo. Be   the classic SEO article, the news   article, the YouTube blog post, or again   the custom uh templates you can generate   uh you can build out with for your   programmatic SEO. You can do the whole   thing right here. And if you're   wondering if this works, again, if you   go here to the case studies tab, you'll   see that these guys, I think this is   right here, they grew from uh yeah, 0 to   10K month in 24 hours just off of doing   newsbased content. Again, you can watch   the case right here if you want. They   did the exact same thing. So again,   these are two super quickfire bonus uh   programmatic SEO tips sort of um which   you can uh do right now. And uh by the   way, it's sort of programmatic SEO, just   not in a classic way because you're   leveraging AI. It's basically evolved.   So hopefully this rapidfire course on   programmatic SEO taught you like how and   why things work. Taught you that before   we only use the variables and the   offline, but now we because AI   technology, we get to use the generation   prompt. And the best tool for that,   again, I'm fully biased. I own this. If   you buy it, I make money. It is Arvo.

  It's fantastic. Give it a go. And as I   promised, if you watch all the way   through, you got a secret coupon code.   So, if you use the code secret secret   10, you get an instant 10% off. And by   the way, any questions you have, just   click here, help support, and you can   hop on with a phone.

 So, he helps you   out with anything you need, honestly. Be   it for guidance in your SEO niche or   guidance in your strategy or help you   with any technical things you need. So,   check it out. Use Arvo for programmatic   SEO. Use the code secret 10.
