
Everyone knows the apps you can't put   down have something special about them,   but nobody's breaking down the three   specific layers that make them actually   work. So, in this video, I'm going to   reverse engineer how they do it. And   [music] once you see it, it will change   how you build products forever.

  >> [music]   >> And just as some additional proof here,   we've tested this framework with   everything from App Store top layers to   AI apps with hundreds of thousands of   monthly active users at SIPAP. So, we   know this works. Now, let's start with a   pattern I keep seeing. Many founders,   whether they know it or not, actually   follow the classic double diamond design   approach when building a product.

 You   explore horizontally before going deep   vertically. And that's the most proven   way to reach startup success. But still,   most products fail. Why is that? It's   because they usually skip the specific   nuances that actually matter for   creating addictive products and   especially those related to the last   layer we'll talk about today.

 The one   that apps like Dualingo almost abuse to   keep people hooked. But before we get   there, if you're interested in chatting   with me about design strategy for your   own app, check out our free design   strategy calls in the link down below.   Now, let's start at the base that makes   the other layers of the three layer   framework relevant in the first place.

  Something I call the experience   foundation. To exemplify this, I want   you to think about ordering pizza. You   can have the most beautifully animated   interface in the whole world, but if it   takes half an hour to place a simple   oneperson order, no awardw worthy   visuals can save you from pissing people   off.

 In the end, people would much   rather just have the ability to say,   "Hey Google, order my favorite pizza for   6:00 p.m. tonight." And this example   encapsulates what the entire experience   foundation is about. Your app should   focus on helping people get their jobs   done as smoothly and as quickly as   possible.

 Again, most founders know   this. But still, here's where 90% of   them go wrong. Even the ones who have   successful products might be missing out   on millions in potential revenue because   of a nonoptimized core experience. So   how can we do this in the right way? How   can we nail that experience foundation?   Well, first you need to clarify and map   out your core user experience and make   sure it's the right one.

 This happens   before you touched any visual design   whatsoever. And it applies to building   an app from scratch, adding new   features, or even tweaking an existing   experience. Always aim to do this. In   our case, at Zips, we run strategy   workshops as the first step in every   single project. This helps us understand   the core problems and create a   comprehensive strategy.

 document that   informs our entire path forward. And   whenever we learn something new, whether   that's through testing or just new   insights from the client, we'll capture   it in this document. And having this in   written form forces us to a not jump   into visuals yet, while b giving us AI   ready prompt material that can be used   for anything from rapid prototyping to   ideulating new ways to solve core   problems.

 After this, we'll touch design   software for the first time. We'll   create screen maps where we outline   every single part of the flow and its   connected feature set. Then lastly, we   get into real visual stuff. Here's where   we create wireframes and prototypes that   we can use to hone in on the most   optimized user experience.

 Being strict   with this flow is key because it ensures   that we're building the right foundation   before anything else. And if you want to   see it in action, I have a video on the   channel where I go into detail on our   exact process. Or better yet, again, if   you want to talk to me directly about   this, check out the free strategy call   in the link below.

 Now, the experience   foundation helps us make sure we create   true functional value. But in this age   of AI slop where everything looks the   same, it's not really enough. If we want   to build that next level of trust and   conversion, we need to master the second   layer, something I call interface   boosting.

 Once your experience works   flawlessly, you need to turn your visual   interface into your trust badge. And to   showcase the importance of this, here's   a crazy fact for you. People make trust   decisions about your app within 50   milliseconds of seeing it. On top of   that, they'll continue to judge it   throughout your entire app's existence.

  So having a clean, professional   interface will signal reliability and   competence. And whether you're actually   reliable or competent, it will trick   your users's subconscious into feeling   like this is a safe place to invest   time, effort, and money. On the   contrary, poor visual design will make   people question your app.

 You see,   warning signals will go off in their   heads and you'll lose potential users   and revenue. The common misconception   with interface design is that it's about   shiny buttons or fancy gradients. So,   naturally, we end up copying trendy   designs without really understanding why   certain visual choices work better than   others. for our specific case.

 And   here's the bigger problem with that. We   start treating interface design like   decoration instead of a strategic tool   that enhances your entire experience   foundation. Your color choices, your   contrast levels, and your visual   hierarchy aren't just aesthetic   decisions. They're business drivers that   either guide users toward your goals or   completely distract them from what   really matters.

 So, here's what to do   when you reach the interface boosting   layer. Use strong, high contrast colors   strategically on elements that directly   or indirectly drive revenue. Think about   it like this. Your primary call to   actions should almost pop off the screen   while secondary actions can safely kind   of fade away into the background.

 Also,   reduce contrast on less important   content to create visual breathing room   for what actually matters in your   designs. And then design your visuals to   tell a story that guides users naturally   through your interface. You can use   directional elements, color coding, and   visual weights to create a clear path   toward conversion.

 Instead of cramming   every feature into view, use strategic   widespace and visual hierarchy to   spotlight your money-making actions. As   a rule of thumb, every visual choice   should answer one single question. Does   this help users see what they need to   see when they need to see it? Now, by   executing on the experience foundation   and the interface boosting in a good   way, your app should enter that top 10%   level of apps.

 But like I mentioned in   the beginning of the video, it's the   last layer that separates merely good   apps from addictive ones. I call this   layer emotional design integration. And   this is the secret sauce that helps you   create that genuine human connection   through a digital interface. Let's take   this super classic example of Dualingo.

  If you compare it to any basic learning   app, you'll see that they teach the same   kind of stuff, but somehow Dualingo just   feels more alive and fun and addictive.   This is because the Dualingo app is a   masterclass in emotional design. It   celebrates your progress. It makes you   feel guilty for missing days and it   creates emotional investment.

 Nowadays,   many successful apps and apps in general   are trying to do what Duolingo is doing.   Here's the thing, though. You don't   necessarily need to acquire a motion   design studio to get the most essential   parts of emotional design. While   Duolingo has the multi-million dollar   budget to create emotional moments   basically everywhere in the app, you can   still get lots of emotional design value   by simply focusing your efforts.

 For   example, when we do it for clients at   SIPs app, we pinpoint the moments where   emotional integration most likely will   lead to better business outcomes. So in   which parts of the flows does it really   make sense to add this emotional design.   Then we just design strategic emotional   moments based on that.

 And this   emotional integration is crucial because   we lose something fundamental when we go   digital. Think about it. In person,   emotional connection just happens   naturally through tone, body language,   and genuine reactions. In apps, on the   other hand, you have to design that   connection or it simply doesn't exist.

  And this is where most apps today fail   horribly. It's becoming more and more   apparent in the AI age where everyone   and their grandma can create an app.   It's super easy nowadays. We're in a   time where we treat users like robots   who just want efficiency. There's no   personality or emotional feedback in the   apps or in most of the apps that are   created today.

 And as a result, users   might complete tasks, but they'll never   form emotional attachment to the   product, which in turn increases the   likelihood they'll eventually churn. So,   how do you keep them from churning using   emotional design? Let me show you a   couple of recent examples of what we did   at Sibs.

 for free cash, an app that is   currently at number two on the app store   as I'm filming this. We introduced a   tiered diamond system with levels   designed to allow the user to keep   collecting diamonds, basically for   years. This creates a reason for power   users to keep returning and exploring   what's at the next level. Also, if   they're not careful, their whole   progress can go lost in a very visually   demoralizing way, which makes them not   want to do that.

 Obviously, with another   app, in a very crowded AI note-taking   space, we pick the most used part of the   app to reinforce their brand while   creating a memorable living experience   the user will interact with daily. So,   we picked an experience that is used   daily to reinforce the branding while   also adding functional value.

 And then   for a recent iOS app, among many things,   we frontloaded emotional connection   during the onboarding to gain that extra   bit of trust with a very trust sensitive   web 3 audience. And this is crucial here   with a trust sensitive web 3 audience   that we think about emotional design as   a lever to kind of gain their trust.

 In   this case, we need to do everything we   can to make them trust the app. And you   can do the same with your app. Just   remember to follow the three layers.   Start with the experience foundation and   make your core user experience better   than anything on the market. Then nail   that 50 millisecond trust test through   professional clean interface boosting.

  And lastly, introduce emotional   integration to create that next level of   stickiness with your users. As I   mentioned twice already, if you want   help with any of this, just sign up for   the strategy calls in the link down   below. Also somewhere around here,   you'll find the videos about Dualingo   and our detailed design agency process   that I mentioned before.

 Until the next   one, have a great
